@@5425514 Consort Chen Farong ( ) was an imperial consort during the Chinese dynasty Liu Song . She was a concubine of Emperor Ming , and during his reign , she carried the rank of ' ' Zhaohua ' ' ( ) , the sixth highest rank for Liu Song imperial consorts . Consort Chen was from the Liu Song capital Jiankang , and she was regarded as the mother of Emperor Ming 's son Liu Zhun ( later Emperor Shun ) , born in 467 , but whether she was his biological mother is a matter of historical dispute . Historical accounts , written during the succeeding Southern Qi Dynasty , indicate that Emperor Ming was impotent , and that although he had 12 sons , those were the results of his having seized his brothers ' pregnant concubines and kept the children if they bore males , or his having had his concubines have sexual relations with others . ( However , the fact that his wife Empress Wang Zhenfeng had two daughters , although no sons , may argue against such allegations , because it appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ childrenindeed , the allegations stated that he would only do this if his brothers ' concubines bore malesor that the morally upright Empress Wang would engage in sexual relations with others , thus suggesting that the allegations were made to delegitimize Emperor Ming 's sons Emperor Houfei and Emperor Shun vis--vis Southern Qi . ) Those same accounts indicate that Liu Zhun was actually the biological son of Emperor Ming 's brother Liu Xiufan ( ) the Prince of Guiyang and one of Liu Xiufan 's concubines , and that Emperor Ming had her raise Liu Zhun . Emperor Ming died in 472 , and was succeeded by his son Liu Yu ( Emperor Houfei ) . Because Liu Zhun , as the emperor 's brother , carried the title of Prince of Ancheng , Consort Chen was honored as the Princess Dowager of Ancheng . After the impulsive and violent Emperor Houfei was assassinated in 477 , the general Xiao Daocheng effectively took over the government and made Liu Zhun a puppet emperor . Consort Chen , as the emperor 's mother , was honored as Consort Dowager ( ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's wife Empress Wang . Xiao forced Emperor Shun to yield the throne to him in 479 , ending Liu Song and starting Southern Qi , and Emperor Shun was created the Prince of Ruyin . Accordingly , Consort Chen became known as the Princess Dowager of Ruyin . Later that year , the former Emperor Shun was killed by soldiers who were supposed to protect him , and Xiao then ordered a general killing of the Liu clan . It appeared unlikely that Consort Chen would have been killed in the slaughter , although it is not known when she died . 
