@@5593514 The Goose-Girl at the Well is a German fairy tale collected by the Brothers Grimm , tale number 179 . It is Aarne-Thompson type 923 , love like salt . # Synopsis # An old woman raised geese in the mountains . One day , speaking of her heavy burden , she persuaded a count to carry it for her up the mountain . He found it burdensome , but she would not let him even rest . When they arrived at the hut , there was an ugly girl tending the old woman 's geese , but the old woman would not let them stay together , lest he may fall in love with her . Before the old woman sent the count away , she gave him a box cut out of an emerald as thanks for carrying her burden . The count wandered the woods for three days before he arrived at a town where a king and queen reigned . He showed them the box . When the queen saw the box , she collapsed as if dead , and the count was led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woke , she insisted on speaking with him . She told him that her youngest daughter had been a beautiful girl who wept pearls and jewels . But one day , when the king had asked his three daughters how well they loved him , the youngest said that she loved him like salt . The king divided his kingdom between the two older girls and drove the youngest out , giving her only a sack of salt . The king regretted this decision afterward , but the girl was never to be found again . When the queen had opened the box , a pearl just like how her daughter 's jewel tears looked like was in it . The count told them where he had gotten the box , and the king and queen resolved to speak with the old woman . Meanwhile , in the mountains , the ugly girl washed in a well by night . She became a beautiful girl , though sad . She returned to her usual form when the moonlight was blocked . When she returned to the hut , the old woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The old woman told the girl that it had been three years , so they could stay no longer together . The girl was upset , and asked what would happen to her , but the old woman said that she was disrupting her work and sent her to wait in her room . The count had gone with the king and queen but become separated . He saw the ugly girl make herself beautiful and was entranced by her beauty . He followed her , and met with the king and queen at the hut . The old woman said to the king and queen that they could have spared themselves a walk if they had not been so unjust to their daughter . She led them in and told their daughter to come out of the room , and the family wept to see each other again . The old woman disappeared and the hut became a castle . The count married the youngest princess , and they lived there ever afterward. 
