@@6139514 combatant2 = **6;178767;br Pathet Lao The Battle of Ban Dong was a major battle of the Vietnam War that took place in Laos , involving the North and South Vietnamese armies . The battle lasted from February 8 to March 20 , 1971 . Before Operation Lam Son 719 began , intelligence indicated that North Vietnam had permanently placed logistical units in the Ban Dong area , especially along the Ho Chi Minh Trail . The logistical units were supported by one regular division , with another one ready for rapid deployment . In order to capture Tchepone the district of Ban Dong had to be brought under South Vietnamese control . # Diversions # The initial objective of Lam Son 719 was to capture Ban Dong and the surrounding areas , establish firebases and then find and destroy the enemy . Once the first phase of the operation was completed , the 1st ARVN Infantry Division and its supporting units would move on Tchephone . Again , they would set up strong points , sweep the occupied areas and then find and destroy the enemy . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republic of Vietnam had a diversionery plan drawn up , the aim was to fool the North Vietnamese High Command in regards to South Vietnamese operations . During early February the 147th Marine Brigade , under the command of Colonel Hoang Tich Thong , was airlifted from Da Nang to Dong Ha . The arrival of a South Vietnamese brigade close to the DMZ created an impression that an assault was about to be launched against North Vietnam ; when the 147th Marines Brigade crossed the Dong Ha river using landing craft in an amphibious exercise , the North Vietnamese Army reacted by attacking the South Vietnamese Marines violently . A few days later the 147th Marine Brigade was moved to Khe Sanh as the main ARVN force were preparing for the main operation . # Ban Dong # On February 8 President Nguyen Van Thieu gave the order to attack , with the 1st Airborne Brigade and the 1st Armour Brigade launching an attack on Ban Dong . Originally , the South Vietnamese Army planned to capture Ban Dong on February 9 but due to early miscalculations , Ban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of combat engineers , Fire Support Bases A Luoi , 30 and 31 was immediately set up . Initially the ARVN encountered little resistance , but reconnaissance activities noticed increasing activities of North Vietnamese troops in the area . On March 18 , after heavy casualties were inflicted on the South Vietnamese on Hill 723 , the joint North Vietnamese and Pathet Lao forces launched a counterattack supported by armour . After some hard fighting , FSB 30 and 31 were overrun . Pressure from the North Vietnamese anti-aircraft fire prevented South Vietnamese troops from being resupplied , as a result , ARVN morale collapsed . Taking advantage of the ARVN 's critical situation , the combined Communist forces launched deep thrust into South Vietnamese defensive formations . After nearly three days of fighting , the South Vietnamese took more casualties as the 1st Paratroop Brigade was virtually wiped out by the North Vietnamese Army . 
