@@7599514 East Timor Women Australia ( ETWA ) is a grassroots non-government organisation established to support women in East Timor . # East Timorese Tais # A key focus of support is in assisting women 's sustainable livelihoods in the handcrafts industry . ETWA partners with local organisations the Taibesi Cooperative and Cooperativa Tais Timor ( CTT ) . These organisations source tais , the traditional East Timorese weavings , from rural and urban weaving groups . The weaving of tais requires a great deal of skill with designs having a deeply embedded cultural meaning . Designs are passed down from mother to daughter with great variation across the country . Tais are woven on back-strap looms where a harness sits on the lower back providing tension . Traditionally tais were made from locally sourced and spun cotton although many weavers have incorporated imported cotton into their designs . Many East Timorese organisations such as CTT and Taibesi are also incorporating tais into other product design in order to access broader markets for their products . ETWA supports the handcrafts industry as a mechanism which allows women to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of domestic violence in East Timor economic empowerment may be one way to further strengthen women 's social role and opportunities . It also allows the many women widowed or orphaned under the Indonesian occupation with a means of supporting themselves while recognising their highly specialised skills and expertise . # The Organisation # ETWA is a member-based organisation that is run by volunteers with support by a part-time coordinator . It was established in 2004 by a group of community development students , some of whom were active in the Free East Timor movement before the 1999 referendum . As well as its Melbourne based office ETWA also has chapters active in the Dandenong Ranges , Gippsland and the Northern Territory . The organisation is self-funded by membership fees , donations and fundraising activities . # Activities # In addition to supporting CTT and the Taibesi Cooperative to find markets overseas ETWA undertakes other activities . Currently these include developing a program for social justice education in schools , a design collaboration with students from the University of New South Wales and community advocacy . In 2005 ETWA cooperated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference which facilitated dialogue between organisations working with women in East Timor . In 2007 ETWA will support a health study into the health of Timorese weavers . The organisation also has a very strong relationship with the Dili based Cooperative Studies Centre . ETWA is cited in the book by activist-historian Clinton Fernandes as an example of positive collaboration for sustainable development in East Timor . 
