@@7717514 The House Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development , and Related Agencies is a standing subcommittee within the House Appropriations Committee . The United States House Committee on Appropriations has joint jurisdiction with the United States Senate Committee on Appropriations over all appropriations bills in the United State Congress . Each committee has 12 matching subcommittees , each of which is tasked with working on one of the twelve annual regular appropriations bills . This subcommittee has jurisdiction over the budget for the United States Department of Energy and Water Development . # Appropriations process # Traditionally , after a federal budget for the upcoming fiscal year has been passed , the appropriations subcommittees receive information about what the budget sets as their spending ceilings . This is called 302(b) allocations after section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 . That amount is separated into smaller amounts for each of the twelve Subcommittees . The federal budget does not become law and is not signed by the President . Instead , it is guide for the House and the Senate in making appropriations and tax decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has procedures in place for what to do without one . The House and Senate now consider appropriations bills simultaneously , although originally the House went first . The House Committee on Appropriations usually reports the appropriations bills in May and June and the Senate in June . Any differences between appropriations bills passed by the House and the Senate are resolved in the fall . # Appropriations bills # An appropriations bill is a bill that appropriates ( gives to , sets aside for ) money to specific federal government departments , agencies , and programs . The money provides funding for operations , personnel , equipment , and activities . Regular appropriations bills are passed annually , with the funding they provide covering one fiscal year . The ' ' fiscal year ' ' is the accounting period of the federal government , which runs from October 1 to September 30 of the following year . There are three types of appropriations bills : regular appropriations bills , continuing resolutions , and supplemental appropriations bills . Regular appropriations bills are the twelve standard bills that cover the funding for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed to be enacted into law by October 1 . If Congress has not enacted the regular appropriations bills by the time , it can pass a continuing resolution , which continues the pre-existing appropriations at the same levels as the previous fiscal year ( or with minor modifications ) for a set amount of time . The third type of appropriations bills are supplemental appropriations bills , which add additional funding above and beyond what was originally appropriated at the beginning of the fiscal year . Supplemental appropriations bills can be used for things like disaster relief . Appropriations bills are one part of a larger United States budget and spending process . They are preceded in that process by the president 's budget proposal , congressional budget resolutions , and the 302(b) allocation . The U.S. Constitution ( Article I , section 9 , clause 7 ) states that No money shall be drawn from the Treasury , but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law .. This is what gives Congress the power to make these appropriations . The President , however , still has the power to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
