@@9151514 Louis-Charles Malassez ( 21 September 18421909 ) was a French anatomist and histologist born in Nevers , department of Nivre . He studied medicine in Paris , where he worked as an ' ' interne ' ' from 1867 . He served with the 5th Ambulance Corps during the Franco-Prussian War , afterwards returning to Paris , where he worked with distinguished physicians that included Claude Bernard , Jean-Martin Charcot and Pierre Potain . In 1875 he attained the chair of anatomy at Collge de France , and in 1894 became a member of the ' ' Acadmie de Mdecine ' ' . Malassez is remembered for research involving histology of the blood , and is credited for design of the hemocytometer , a device used to quantitatively measure blood cells . In the field of dentistry , he described residual cells of the epithelial root sheath in the periodontal ligament . These remaining cells are referred to as epithelial cell rests of Malassez ( ERM ) . A genus of fungi called ' ' Malassezia ' ' bears his name . The species in the genus include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malassezia ovalis ' ' , ' ' Malassezia pachydermatis ' ' , ' ' Malassezia sympodialis ' ' and ' ' Malassezia orbiculare ' ' . ' ' Malassezia furfur ' ' is a lipophilic species that forms on human skin and can cause seborrheic dermatitis and tinea versicolor , ' ' Malassezia pachydermatis ' ' is a species that is associated with otitis externa in dogs . # Selected publications # * ' De la numration des globules rouges du sang . I. Des mthodes de numration . II . De la richesse du sang en globules rouges dans les diffrentes parties de l'arbre circulatoire . Paris 1873 * Sur les lsions histologiques de la syphilis testiculaire . Paris , 1881 - ( with Paul Reclus 1847-1914 ) . * Sur lexistence damas pithliaux autour de la racine des dents chez lhomme adulte et a ltat normal ( dbris pithliaux paradentaires . Paris , 1885 * Sur les role des dbris pithliaux paradentaires . In : Archives de physiologie normale et pathologique . Paris , S. 309340 , 1885 
