@@11341514 Michael Mullan is a biomedical researcher of the -amyloid protein and its relation to Alzheimer 's disease . Mike Mullan 's Alzheimer research is well known among the Biomedical Community . Dr. Mullan 's Alzheimer research work resulted in identifying the most widely known Swedish Mutation that is present in familial form . Transgenic Animal models for Alzheimer Disease frequently use the Swedish Mutation . Dr. Mullan is a recognized authority on Alzheimer 's disease and related disorders . Dr. Michael Mullan was trained as a physician in England receiving his medical degree from London University . He subsequently gained a PhD in molecular genetics , also from London University . He is an inventor on the patents covering the first ever genetic mutations linked to familial Alzheimer 's disease . He was an author and senior author on the first papers describing the genetic errors which cause early onset familial Alzheimer 's disease . He has co-authored over 200 papers on Alzheimer 's disease and related disorderson many of which he served as senior author . He has held positions a Professorial Chair and positions as professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently the President and CEO of The Roskamp Institute , which is funded by multiple agencies , including the NIH and the Department of Defense . Dr. Michael Mullan along with a team of neuroscientists at the Roskamp Institute invented the Brain Reserve Index , a numerical index that indicates risk of developing Alzheimer 's Disease . Dr. Mullan is the president of that implements a new approach to improving brain fitness supporting the strong relationships between physical and brain health using Brain Reserve or cognitive reserve . Dr. Mullan at pioneered the use of Brain Reserve Index . Dr. Mike Mullan is currently CEO of the Roskamp Institute in Sarasota , Florida . Under Dr. Michael Mullan 's leadership the institute is carrying out cutting edge research in Alzheimer 's , Traumatic Brain Research , Gulf War Illness and other neuropsychiatric disorder . He has published over 200 research papers . Dr. Michael Mullan is currently the CEO and chairman of the Board for RockCreek Pharmaceuticals . Dr. Mullan has served in numerous directorship positions for medical research organizations , including the Roskamp Institute from 2003 to 2011 , Roskamp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 1998 to 2003 , and the Memory Disorder Clinic from 1998 to 2003 . Dr. Mullan taught as a professor of medicine in neuroscience , psychiatry and pathology at the University of South Florida from 1995 to 2003 . Dr. Mullan has authored or co-authored more than 200 articles on an array of medical topics , including the treatment of Alzheimers disease . Dr. Mullan received his medical degree , MBBS ( M.D. ) , and Ph.D . in Molecular Genetics from London University . 
