@@11463514 Assam has maintained a rich tradition of various traditional crafts for more than two thousand years . Presently , Cane and bamboo craft , bell metal and brass craft , silk and cotton weaving , toy and mask making , pottery and terracotta work , wood craft , jewellery making , musical instruments making , etc. are remained as major traditions . Historically , Assam also excelled in making boats , traditional guns and gunpowder , colours and paints , articles of lac , traditional building materials , utilities from iron , etc . Cane and bamboo craft provide the most commonly used utilities in daily life , ranging from household utilities , weaving accessories , fishing accessories , furniture , musical instruments to building construction materials . Traditional utilities and symbolic articles made from bell metal and brass are found in every Assamese household . The Xorai and bota have been in use for centuries to offer gifts to respected persons and are two prominent symbolic elements . Hajo and Sarthebari / Xorthebaary are the most important centres of traditional bell-metal and brass crafts . Assam is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prominent and prestigious being Muga , the natural golden silk is exclusive only to Assam . Apart from Muga , there are other two varieties called Pat , a creamy-bright-silver coloured silk and Eri , a variety used for manufacturing warm clothes for winter . Apart from Sualkuchi / Xualkuchi , the centre for the traditional silk industry , in almost every parts of the Brahmaputra Valley , rural households produce silk and silk garments with excellent embroidery designs . Moreover , various ethno-cultural groups in Assam make different types of cotton garments with unique embroidery designs and wonderful colour combinations . Moreover , Assam possesses unique crafts of toy and mask making mostly concentrated in the Vaishnav Monasteries , pottery and terracotta work in Western Assam districts and wood craft , iron craft , jewellery , etc. in many places across the region . 
