@@13315514 Design technology , or D.T. , is the study , design , development , application , implementation , support and management of computer and non-computer based technologies for the express purpose of communicating , using various mediums , product design intent and constructability as well as to facilitate product operation and maintenance and to ultimately improve overall product design realization , construction , operation and maintenance . At times there is cross-over between D.T. and Information Technology , however , whereas I.T . is primarily focused on overall network infrastructure , hardware &amp; software requirements , and implementation , D.T. is specifically focused on supporting , maintaining and training design and engineering applications and tools and working closely with I.T . to provide necessary infrastructure , for the most effective use of these applications and tools . Within the building design , construction and maintenance industry ( also known as AEC/O/FM ) , the product is the building and the role of D.T. , is the effective application of technologies within all phases and aspects of building process . So though D.T. encompasses Building Information Modelling , B.I.M @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more overarching in its directive and scope and likewise looks for ways to leverage and more effectively utilize C.A.D. , Virtual Design &amp; Construction , V.D.C. , as well as historical and legacy data and systems . Furthermore , D.T. is not just limited to the building design , construction and maintenance industry ; but is also applicable to industrial and product design and the manufacturing and fabrication processes therein . Though not directly related there are also formal courses of study in some countries known as design and technology that focus on particular areas . In this case the above definition still remains valid , if for instance you take the subject textiles technology and replace product in the above definition with textile . 
