@@13717514 The Hartland landfill is the waste disposal site for the city of Victoria , British Columbia and the Greater Victoria area . It was purchased by the Capital Regional District in 1975 and has been directly operated by its Environmental Sustainability Department since 1985 . It is located in the District of Saanich on top of a hill , between Victoria and Sidney , at the end of Hartland Avenue . There is a public waste drop-off area , a recycling centre , a household hazardous waste collection facility and an electricity generating station that utilizes landfill gas as a fuel source . It has won several international environmental awards . At current disposal rates it is estimated that the landfill will be full by 2045. # Cycling , Hiking , &amp; Tours # There are varying levels of mountain biking trails for people who wish to use ATB , All Terrain Bikes . These paths are located outside the fenced garbage disposal and processing areas . The cycling , or hiking areas have park signs and water hose stations to clean cycling equipment . The mountain bike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mount Work Regional Park boundaries . The CRD conducts public tours of the Hartland landfill facility , on the subject of waste management , recycling , and capture of waste gas as a supplementary source of electricity generation . # History # The Hartland landfill started as a private dump site in the 1950s . The Hartland landfill was bought by the Capital Regional District in 1975 . As it began to fill up , construction began on phase two in 1997 . This involved blasting out the side of a rock face and covering phase one with dirt and vegetation . This procedure is still taking place . In 2003 the Hartland landfill installed an electricity generating station , to create electricity from the methane gas that was being collected from the decomposing refuse . This generating station now creates 1.6 megawatts of electricity , enough to power about 1,600 homes . After analysis of its garbage composition , the landfill found that 30 percent of its garbage was organic in nature . This has resulted in calls for local food waste collection and composting , which is currently done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular service or as a pilot project . # Procedures and policies # The Hartland landfill is a sanitary landfill , which means that it has a comprehensive system of environmental controls and monitoring programs to mitigate its effects on the environment . Landfill gas created by the decomposition is collected by gas wells and is used for generating electricity . Leachate is collected in two lagoons and it is disposed of through the sanitary sewer system . The landfill has had challenges with the introduction of the non-native species of plants and animals , including the European wall lizard . The Hartland landfill operating bylaw prohibits scavenging of any kind . This is due to safety liability . The Hartland landfill gives free public tours . 
