@@14789514 Donald Jackson , born in 1938 in Lancashire , England , is a British calligrapher , official scribe and calligrapher to the Crown Office of United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . Jackson is artistic director of ' ' The Saint John 's Bible ' ' , a recent , hand-written and illuminated Grand Bible commissioned by the Benedictine monastery of Saint John 's Abbey in Collegeville , Minnesota , USA . He is the author of ' ' The Story Of Writing ' ' ( 1981 ) and ' ' The Calligrapher 's Art ' ' . # Films # Produced and directed by Jeremy Bennett ; calligrapher , Donald Jackson ; narrator , Susannah York . ' ' Alphabet : the story of writing ' ' ( 1980 ) 4 30 minutes , VHS , A set of 4 half-hour film quality videos . RBS v2.162.19 Overview This four part series produced for Parker Pen contains hardly any printing or typesetting . The first two parts cover letterforms up to the fourteenth century and are highly recommended . They are extremely well done particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part one ) and quill pens ( part two ) and demonstrates their influence on letterforms . Part two also features a superb demonstration of the art of illuminating . Part three has a short section on printing which covers the invention of the printing press and copper engraving . While discussing Gutenberg the letterpress printing being shown from a much later period an iron press is used and the type looks far too modern . Part 4 was presumably the point of the whole production as far as Parker Pen were concerned it focuses entirely on pens , handwriting , and calligraphy . It is by far the weakest part of the series , disparaging the bad new letterforms that computers have been responsible for and claiming that we can tell what people were like from their writing . Narrated by Susannah York and presented by Donald Jackson . Summary Part I : the making of letters After an introduction and shots of lettering on various different kinds of signage the film goes back in time and discusses the development of letterforms including : Cave paintings , clay tablets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the alphabet Roman inscriptions Part II : the pen is mightier than the sword Focuses on manuscript production from the end of the Roman Empire including : The dark ages the Book of Kells Development of lowercase The quill pen Using gold leaf Making ink Illumination Part III : penman , printer , and engraver fourteenth- and fifteenth-century manuscript books Gothic script Italic ( chancery ) script the printing press printing on an iron hand press , without using the tympan copy books copper-plate engraving close-up of an engraver at work with flat bed cylinder presses working in the background and a copper plate being inked and printed Part 4 : writing : everybodys art examples of pen labels examples of the copper-plate hand new inks for steel nibs portable pens ball point pens modern calligraphy 
