@@16922514 Edward Rafeedie ( January 6 , 1929 March 25 , 2008 ) was a judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California . He was appointed by President Ronald Reagan in 1982. # Biography # # Early life # Rafeedie was born to Palestinian immigrants in Orange , New Jersey . His family moved to Santa Monica when he was seven years old . He lived for a while in Palestine before moving back to California . After graduating from Venice High School , Rafeedie traveled the carnival circuit with a portable electric horse-race game called Derby . He then served in the U.S. Army during the Korean War . After leaving the Army , Rafeedie enrolled at the University of Southern California . He graduated with a bachelor 's degree in law in 1957 , and two years later graduated from the University of Southern California Law School . He then worked in private practice until he was appointed as a Municipal Court judge in 1969 by California Governor Ronald Reagan . In 1969 , Governor Reagan elevated him to the Superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . # Career # During his tenure on the Superior Court , Rafeedie presided over several high-profile civil cases , including the contested conservatorship of Groucho Marx , the Britt Ekland and Rod Stewart palimony trial and part of the Bob Dylan divorce case . He also sentenced the daredevil Evel Knievel to jail for attacking a television executive with a baseball bat . Rafeedie was also known for his calendar management of cases and his concern of efficient management of trials . His nickname was , Speedie Rafeedie , because of his penchant for denying trial continuances . In 1982 , Rafeedie was appointed to the federal bench by President Reagan . His most controversial case was in 1990 , when he ruled that the kidnapping of Dr. Humberto Alvarez Machain was illegal and ordered his repatriation to Mexico . Alvarez Machain was accused of aiding drug traffickers in the 1985 torturing and killing of Enrique Kiki Camarena , who was a Drug Enforcement Administration agent . Because the DEA had paid a group of Mexican citizens to kidnap him in Mexico and fly him to the United States to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violation of the United States-Mexico extradition treaty . His commented after the ruling that There has to be stronger evidence than you have offered to find that a man is guilty of kidnapping , murder and torture , Rafeedie told prosecutors . This does not rise to the level required to get this case to the jury . The ruling stunned the Justice Department and angered government agents . However , the U.S. Supreme Court later overruled his decision , holding that the extradition treaty did not prohibit kidnapping . This was due to a ruling that stated the US Government had the right to kidnap and prosecute an alleged criminal regardless of treaty . Immediately thereafter , a large number of countries holding treaties with the United States demanded that their treaties be amended , adding anti-kidnapping language . # Personal # Rafeedie died from cancer on March 25 , 2008 at the age of 79. 
