@@16973514 Harry Thubron ( 19151985 ) was an English artist and art teacher . During the 1950s and 60s Thubron was a familiar name in education for his pioneering experiments in post-school art education . He taught at Sunderland College of Art from 1950 to 1955 , and then became Head of Fine Art at Leeds College of Art . During his ten-year tenure in Leeds he helped to revolutionise art education in England by establishing the Basic Design Course , a programme inspired by the German Bauhaus college and the theoretical writings of Herbert Read . In this programme , art and design students were not taught specific skills for any of the disciplines of art and design , but visual literacy in the use of colour , establishment of form and construction of space . Out of this , and similar experiments undertaken by Victor Pasmore and Richard Hamilton at Kings College Newcastle , a new introductory course for art , design and architecture students emerged , called the Foundation Course , which went on to became the standard degree course-entry qualification for art , design and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Canada and elsewhere . At Leeds Thubron also established close links between the art college and the School of Fine Art at the University of Leeds , which allowed the University 's Gregory Fellows in Fine Art to start teaching at Leeds College of Art . He also helped to create a prototype for Britain 's Polytechnics by sending his students to work on collaborative projects with engineering students from Leeds College of Technology , out of which Leeds Polytechnic was formed . This was also a time when Thubron organised a series of summer schools in Scarborough , North Yorkshire , through which his ideas on art education were shared with artists , art teachers and art students from all over the country , thereby spreading his philosophy . Thubron 's own artwork often comprises constructions made from various materials , often industrial in origin . In terms of art his philosophy was that art could be made from anything , but it was always a visual phenomenon and not a conceptual illustration . In 1964 Thubron left Leeds and became a lecturer at Lancaster until 1966 . Thubron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although he only held this post for three years ( until 1968 ) due to increasing ill health . He still continued some teaching after this , as a part-time tutor at Goldsmiths ' College , London , between 1971 and 1982 . Notable students of Thubron include Stass Paraskos , who went on to establish the Cyprus College of Art , on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus using Thurbon 's theories , and this institution still exists as a Thubronite art institution today . Thubron has several of his artworks in Tate Britain , and regional collections in England , such as Leeds City Art Gallery . # References # <references/> 
