@@17289514 Jules-Charles Le Bozec ( 18981973 ) was a French sculptor , whose work reflects a commitment to the local design traditions of his native province of Brittany . # Biography # Le Bozec was born in Saint-Mayeux , Ctes-d'Armor , Brittany . He was apprenticed to the carpenter Alfred ly-Monbet , of the nearby village of Caurel . He then moved on to study at the cole des Beaux-Arts of Rennes , before progressing to that of Paris . He was a pupil of the sculptor Jean Boucher , for whom he always retained a profound respect mingled with affection . Le Bozec settled in Mellionnec . With Marcel Le Lout , Georges Robin and others he joined the Breton art movement ' ' Seiz Breur ' ' , a group of young artists who were dedicated to the revival of decorative arts in Brittany . With James Bouill and Xavier de Langlais , he also helped to found An Droellen , the Breton studio of Christian Art . In 1927 , in collaboration with the painter Ren-Yves Creston , he designed the costumes for three plays : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Jean-Marie Perrot , ' ' Tog Jani ' ' by Yves Le Moal and ' ' Lina ' ' by Roparz Hemon , the first performance of which took place in January 1927 . Soon becoming well known , he received many commissions from churches and chapels in Brittany , including bas-reliefs for altars , as well as war memorials , which were built in large numbers at this period after World War I. Some of Le Bozec 's sculptures were reproduced by the ceramics company ' ' Faencerie HB-Henriot ' ' in Quimper , whose activities date back to 1690 . Among these were Woman Digging ( 1930 ) which is a reduced version of the sculpture ' ' Earth ' ' , which had been exhibited at the Salon in 1927 . Another was Meditation , showing the bust from Le Bozec 's original work , ' ' The Potato Harvester ' ' . This latter work was reissued in 2007 from the original moulds and is included in the new catalogue of the pottery in its collection of Quimper White ware . At an auction in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' Young Girl with an Umbrella ' ' - reproduced by the Faencerie HB-Henriot reached the sum of 3100 euros . In 1937 , he made sculptures for the Chapel of Koat-Keo in Scrignac ( Finistre ) , built by his friend James Bouill at the initiative of Abbot Perrot , founder of the Breton Catholic youth organization ' ' Bleun-Brug ' ' . The chapel is seen as a significant attempt to create a distinctive modern Breton architecture . In 1946 , he created the granite statue of ' ' Our Lady of Kerdro ' ' in Locmariaquer. 2.70 metres high , the sculpture was left for sixteen years in the church before being moved to the edge of Kerpenhir to replace another statue that had been erected in 1883 , but had been destroyed during World War II . He died at Mellionnec , Ctes-d'Armor. 
