@@17648514 The history of slavery in Alaska is different from that of the other states that comprise the United States of America . Whereas the continental United States mostly saw enslavement of Africans brought across the Atlantic Ocean , in Alaska indigenous people , and some whites , enslaved indigenous people from other tribes . The Haida and Tlingit tribes held slaves . Some of these enslaved people escaped to the Ebbits who took them in . This in turn brought forth the wrath of the Haida and Tlingit , which resulted in the Ebbits losing territory to the aggrieved tribes . Slavery was abolished in all states under the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution which took effect on December 18 , 1865 . When Alaska was purchased by the United States in 1867 , slavery became illegal in Alaska . When the Ebbits discovered this , thinking it was due to Abraham Lincoln issuing the Emancipation Proclamation , they built a totem pole in Abraham Lincoln 's honor . A common addition to the story is that one group of Tlingit was escaping another , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slavery . However , some authorities say that the totem pole was actually built by the proslavery Tlingit to shame Lincoln , not to honor him . The totem was 55 feet tall and bore the likeness of Lincoln wearing a silk hat and frock coat . The totem is currently at the Alaska State Museum in the state capital of Juneau , Alaska . In 1903 there were still documented cases of slavery in the territory . Aleutian girls could be purchased by wealthy families to do the housework , and were often not allowed to participate in child play or become educated . These girls tended to come from the Atta Islands . From 1911 until the passage of the Fur Seal Act in 1966 , the inhabitants of the Pribilof Islands were governed directly by employees of the United States federal government , under conditions which the ' ' Tundra Times ' ' described in 1964 as slavery in milder form perhaps than existed in the Deep South , but slavery nonetheless ; these conditions included being paid for their labor in food rather than in money ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffrage , being denied freedom of assembly , and being denied freedom of movement , all on the grounds that they did not count as American citizens . In 2001 , four individuals were arrested for enslaving six Russian females , two of whom were only sixteen , for the purpose of having them perform in strip clubs , under threat of violence if they did not comply . 
