@@18830514 Robert William Stanley Mercer CR ( born 10 January 1935 ) is a Roman Catholic priest in England . Formerly an Anglican bishop , he was the fourth Bishop of Matabeleland in Zimbabwe , a diocese of the Church of the Province of Central Africa , a province of the Anglican Communion . Since 2012 he has been a priest in the Personal Ordinariate of Our Lady of Walsingham , a personal ordinariate for former Anglicans within the Roman Catholic Church in the United Kingdom . Mercer was educated at Grey School , Port Elizabeth and St Paul 's Theological College , Grahamstown . Ordained as a deacon in 1959 and as a priest a year later , his first post was as a curate at Hillside , Bulawayo . After time at St Teilos Carmarthen , he returned to his homeland . In 1970 , he was deported from South Africa because of his stand against apartheid , specifically for running , with other Anglican clerics , a multi-racial parish at Stellenbosch University . He was then chaplain of St Augustine 's School , Penhalonga and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bishop in Matabeleland in 1977 and served in the midst of a civil war . From 1988 until his retirement in 2005 he was the metropolitan bishop of the Anglican Catholic Church of Canada . Though retired to England , he remained a member of the Anglican Catholic Church of Canada 's house of bishops until January , 2012 . On 7 January , 2012 , Mercer was received into the Roman Catholic Church as a member of the Personal Ordinariate of Our Lady of Walsingham . On 27 March 2012 , he was ordained a Catholic priest by Bishop Alan Hopes in the Cathedral of St John the Evangelist , Portsmouth . On 21 June , 2012 it was announced that he had been elevated to the rank of Chaplain of His Holiness , entitling him to the title of monsignor . Despite becoming an ordained member of the Roman Catholic Church , Mercer continues to be a member of the Anglican Community of the Resurrection and to live in accommodation in Worthing purchased for him by that community . 
