@@19291514 The Sturgeon-Weir River is a river in east-central Saskatchewan , Canada . It flows about 130 km south-southeast to join the Saskatchewan River at Cumberland House , Saskatchewan . It was on the main voyageur route from eastern Canada northeast to the Mackenzie River basin . The river is a popular wilderness canoe route in Canada . # Description # The river 's source is Corneille Lake , near the community of Pelican Narrows . It travels in a southeast direction , crossing Saskatchewan Highway 106 before reaching Amisk Lake . It then continues southeasterly to Sturgeon Landing and Namew Lake . It runs through the Churchill River Uplands ecoregion which is located along the southern edge of the Precambrian Shield . The area contains continuous coniferous and boreal forest , consisting of closed stands of black spruce and jack pine and a ground cover of mosses and lichens . Local relief rarely exceeds 25 m , but there are ridged steeply sloping rocky uplands and lowlands with exposed bedrock throughout . Wildlife includes barren-ground caribou , moose , black bear , lynx , wolf , beaver , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include raven , common loon , spruce grouse , bald eagle , gray jay , hawk owl , and waterfowl , including ducks and geese . Trapping , hunting , fishing , and tourism are occasional uses of land in this region . # History # The river is a historically important route connecting the Saskatchewan and Churchill River systems . It has been used since prehistoric times and archeological digs have uncovered pottery dating to 1100 CE . The first European to explore the river may have been Hudson Bay Company fur trader Isaac Batt in the winter of 1766-67 . In 1776 Alexander Henry with Joseph Frobisher , Thomas Frobisher , and J.B. Cadotte travelled up the river from Cumberland House and established a fort at the river 's outlet from Amisk Lake , called Fort Beaver Lake . This became the preferred fur trade route connecting the Saskatchewan River system to northern Canada . It linked the important trading posts of Cumberland House to the Frog Portage , Ile a la Crosse and eventually Lake Athabasca . However , its steep gradient ( about 4 feet per mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bad River . A traveller in the early 19th century recorded This river is most appropriately named by the Canadians ; for I believe , for its length , it is the most dangerous , cross-grained piece of navigation in the Indian country . The explorer Sir Alexander Mackenzie described it as an almost continual rapid . In 1779 Philip Turnor was the first to note it on a map as a river leading northward and upon the back of the Churchill . It 's route was first recorded ( unnamed ) on an Aaron Arrowsmith map published in 1802 . David Thompson recorded its length and named it Sturgeon Weir River in his 1814 map of the North-West Territory . 
