@@21176514 Juan de Villagarca ( John de Villa Garcia , known as Joannes Fraterculus or Friar John ) ( died 1564 ) was a Spanish Dominican from Valladolid , known as the witness to one of the statements of confession and recantation by Thomas Cranmer. # Life # He was a pupil of Bartolom de Carranza , and came to England with Carranza , brought by Philip II of Spain . He was a Fellow and Praelector in Theology of Magdalen Hall , Oxford in 1555 . He was Regius Professor of Divinity at the University of Oxford in 1555 . He was the recipient of degrees of B.D. and D.D . at Oxford , in 1555 and 1558 respectively . He first met and discussed with Cranmer at Christ Church , Oxford , on 31 December 1555 . On January 1 , 1556 , in another discussion based on patristic texts , Cranmer was willing to sign the first of his statements , on papal supremacy , conditional on the history of the Council of Nicaea . Later in January they clashed on much worse terms , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England . They met again at the Bocardo Prison adjacent to St Michael at the Northgate , when Villagarca and John Harpsfield interrogated Cranmer in the middle of February . On 26 February there was another statement , written in Latin and probably by Villagarca , that was signed by Cranmer and witnessed by Villagarca and Henry Syddall . This was the fifth statement written or signed by Cranmer ; he himself spoke of it as a return to the Catholic faith , and asked for sacramental absolution . On 20 March , the day of Cranmer 's execution , Villagarca accompanied him to the University Church of St Mary the Virgin , where Cranmer preached , and exchanged words in Latin with him afterwards . These are variously reported in ' ' Foxe 's Book of Martyrs ' ' and ' ' Cranmer 's Recantacyons ' ' , but concerned Cranmer 's denial of papal supremacy from the pulpit . On his return to Spain , Villagarca found that Carranza was in trouble with the Spanish Inquisition for alleged Lutheranism , and his name was linked to the charges . @ @ @ 
