@@21396514 Phillip T. and Susan M. Ragon Institute is a medical institute to be created at the Massachusetts General Hospital by the funding from founder and CEO of InterSystems Phillip Ragon and his wife Susan Ragon to find vaccine for diseases of the immune system , particularly AIDS . The institute hopes to bring in scientists from Harvard University , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) and the Massachusetts General Hospital ( MGH ) , a level I trauma center which is the largest teaching hospital affiliated with the Harvard University Medical School . The Phillip T. and Susan M. Ragon Institute was officially established in February 2009 at MGH , MIT and Harvard with a dual mission : to contribute to the accelerated discovery of an HIV/AIDS vaccine and subsequently to establish itself as a world leader in the collaborative study of immunology . Founded with a commitment of $100 million from the Ragons , the institute is structured and positioned to significantly contribute to a global effort to successfully develop an HIV/AIDS vaccine through : * creating non-traditional partnerships among experts with different but complementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biologists , immunogeneticists , clinicians ) ; * providing a means for rapidly funding promising studies ( e.g. , elite controllers , innovative viral vectors ) and emerging concepts in the field ( e.g. , innate immune system memory ) ; * integrating key facets of current vaccine development efforts that have tended to follow separate tracks ( e.g. , seeking a combined antibody and T-cell solution ) ; * providing a substantial pool of accessible , flexible funding that will help lower the threshold for scientists to pursue risky , unconventional avenues of study that are unlikely to attract funding from traditional sources . Such funding will encourage innovation , compress the time it takes to conduct bench-to-bedside research and attract new minds to the field . The Ragon Institutes scientific leadership comprises a diverse group of world class immunologists , geneticists , infectious disease specialists and computational and systems biologists from the MGH , MIT , Harvard , the Broad Institute , Harvard-affiliated hospitals in Boston and from other leading institutions housing satellite collaborators around the country . The fusion of expertise represented in this partnership is unique in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to bring out the best in each institution 's and each investigators research . The Institute will be housed initially within the MGH . Once fully established , it is expected to occupy its own building and function as a catalyst for collaboration across these institutions . From the outset the Ragon Institute will create a singular opportunity and environment to engage scientists , engineers and clinicians in challenging research for which there may be no greater benefit saving lives and curing the ill. 
