@@23106514 Thomas Hudson Connell is a retired attorney and a Cape Cod based artist whose works span more than four decades . His work is primarily large abstract and semi-abstract acrylic and oil paintings based on natural elements . He also paints landscapes both En Plein Aire as well as in his studio . # Biography # # Education # Mr. Connell received his bachelor 's degree in English from Wesleyan University , Middletown , CT in 1956 . He graduated from the United States Navy OCS Class 28 and was trained as a diver , underwater swimmer and in ordnance disposal ( U.S. Navy EOD ) . He served as a Lieutenant ( senior grade ) aboard the aircraft carrier USS Randolph ( CV-15 ) where he was an Office of the Deck Underway . # Career # After completing his military service , he worked full-time as a commercial artist and copy writer in the Sales and Promotion and Advertising Department of Connecticut Mutual Life . At night , he attended the University of Connecticut School of Law . He received his Juris Doctorate in 1966 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to the United States District Court in 1967 . He was subsequently admitted to the United States District Court of Appeals and Supreme Court of the United States . He specialized in Heavy Construction law and , prior to his retirement as President of a Hartford Connecticut boutique law firm , he was an Arbitrator on the Construction Panel of the American Bar Association , a frequent speaker at programs on Construction Law presented by Lorman Educational Services , taught law to paralegals at Manchester Community College and served as Contributing Legal Editor of the Plastics Engineering Magazine of the Society of Plastics Engineers . Mr. Connell was the 1978 Republican Candidate for Connecticut 's 2nd congressional district , losing the election to Christopher Dodd who went on to become a United States Senator and Presidential Contender . # Artistic career # During the years of his legal practice , Mr. Connell continued his art studies at the Wadsworth Athenaeum in Connecticut . He had a one-person show at Quinebaug Valley Community College in Danielson , Ct . He also exhibited in a student group show at the Athenaeum and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After retirement Mr. Connell re-invented himself and devoted more time to his artwork . He has had four one-person shows on Cape Cod He was interviewed and his work featured on a local television station serving Cape Cod . Several Cape Cod newspapers have reviewed his artwork and , in June 2009 one of his paintings was used as the cover illustration for the Hartford Courant newspapers Sunday magazine . In addition to painting . Mr. Connell is a volunteer naturalist at the Wellfleet Bay Sanctuary of the Massachusetts Audubon Society and is the leader of a group of outer Cape Cod En Plein Aire painters . His artistic inspiration and influences include his observations of nature and the sea , the poetry of William Wordsworth and the color field painting of Mark Rothko . His oils and acrylics are done on gesso primed Masonite in larger sizes ( 24 x 36 , 30 x40 , 40 x 80 ) . His En Plein Aire landscapes and traditional landscape works are painted on canvas in sizes ranging up to 15 x 30 ) . 
