@@23270514 Janrain Inc. is a private technology company that provides software-as-a-service solutions to help organizations improve customer acquisition and intelligence . The company is headquartered in Portland , Oregon , with additional offices in San Francisco , London and Singapore . # History # Janrain was founded in 2005 by Larry Drebes , who previously founded Four11 ( with RocketMail , which later became Yahoo ! Mail ) and Desktop.com . Janrain helped to create and advance the market for social login technology . In 2005 , Janrain began developing the open source libraries that today power the majority of the websites enabling social login . The company also was involved in forming the OpenID Foundation , an organization seeking to advance the market for the technology . In 2008 , Janrain launched the industrys first social login solution . In 2010 , Janrain broadened its product portfolio by introducing technology to power registration and consumer profile data collection and storage . The company was also involved in forming the OpenID Foundation , an organization seeking to advance the market for portable identity technologies . In 2012 and again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Top 500 list of fastest growing private companies . Gartner also named the company as a Cool Vendor in Social Marketing . As of January 2013 , Janrain has received financial investments from Millenium Technology Value Partners , Emergence Capital , Anthem Venture Partners , DFJ Frontier , Epic Ventures , RPM Ventures , Split Rock Partners and Salesforce.com. # Products # Janrain is a user management platform that helps companies acquire more users online and improve consumer intelligence . Its social login product enables people to register and log in on websites using an existing identity from networks such as Facebook , Google , Twitter , LinkedIn and Yahoo . Janrains platform also includes solutions to power website registration , single sign-on , and help companies collect , store and utilize consumer profile data in a SaaS database . Janrain integrates with technology companies such as ExactTarget , Salesforce.com , Demandware , Adobe SiteCatalyst , WordPress and Drupal. 
