@@23437514 ' ' Hall Street Associates , L.L.C. v. Mattel , Inc. ' ' , , was a United States Supreme Court case which held that state and federal courts can not , on a motion to vacate or modify an arbitration award , expand the limited scope of judicial review specified in 9 U.S.C. 10 and 11 , including terms agreed upon by the parties . # Facts of the Case # Toy manufacturer Mattel was sued by its landlord Hall Street Associates in a dispute over a property lease , the property being a former View-Master factory in Beaverton , Oregon . After the litigation went to federal court both parties agreed to resolve the case by arbitration according to the procedures outlined in the Federal Arbitration Act ( FAA ) . Atypically , the parties ' arbitration agreement stipulated that the District Court could override the arbitrator 's decision if the arbitrator 's conclusions of law are erroneous . This provision of the agreement granted the federal courts a much broader role in supervising the arbitration than is specifically granted in the FAA . The Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts can override an arbitration award , such as corruption , partiality , or misbehavior on the part of the arbitrator . The arbitrator heard the parties ' arguments and handed down a decision in favor of Mattel . Hall sought review from the District Court , and that court found that the arbitrator 's decision contained legally erroneous conclusions . Accordingly , the arbitrator ruled for Hall Street , and the District Court affirmed . On appeal , the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that the original arbitration award favoring Mattel must stand . Even if the arbitrator did make legal errors , it was not the place of the courts to review the soundness of the arbitrator 's decision . The Ninth Circuit viewed the FAA 's list of circumstances meriting judicial review as an exclusive list . As far as the original arbitration agreement expanded the scope of judicial review of the arbitration , the agreement could not be enforced . # Decision # In a 6-3 decision , not only did the Supreme Court reject the argument that parties to a contract could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courts can not expand it , even for extraordinary circumstances . # Aftermath # Because the Supreme Court rejected any sort of expansion whatsoever to the limited scope of judicial review stated in 9 U.S.C. 10 and 11 , other courts , such as the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit , have also rejected other , judicially created exceptions , such as manifest disregard for the law . Previously , the Eighth Circuit had recognized manifest disregard as a grounds to vacate an arbitration award , defining manifest disregard as when the arbitrators were fully aware of the existence of a clearly defined governing legal principle , but refused to apply it , in effect , ignoring it . . However , after the Supreme Court passed its ruling in ' ' Hall Street ' ' , the Eighth Circuit changed its holding and held that even manifest disregard is not a sufficient grounds to vacate an arbitration award . 
