@@25347514 American businessman and philanthropist James Herbert Dahl ( born August 16 , 1953 ) is the founder and former chairman of Rock Creek Capital , a Jacksonville , Florida-based firm that provides investment services centered on acquiring and managing land in an environmentally responsible manner . He served two four-year terms as a member of the Investment Advisory Council for the State of Florida 's Pension Fund - the nation 's fourth-largest pension fundbeginning in 2001 . He was chairman of the council from 2005-06 . He previously managed the Convertible Bond Department of investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert , where he provided testimony against Michael Milken . Dahl was never charged with any wrongdoing . # Biography # Dahl was born in Minneapolis but raised primarily in Miami and Naples , Florida . He received his bachelors degree in finance and real estate from Florida State University ( with honors ) and earned an MBA from Florida States Graduate School of Business in 1975 . From 1981 to 1989 , he served as Executive Vice President of investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert , where he held the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department , under the direction of Michael Milken . He was described by the New York Times as a Classic 1980 's mover and shaker .. Once a star salesman for Michael R. Milken 's junk-bond operations , he later received immunity for testifying against him . Dahl was granted criminal immunity , in exchange for his testimony before a Grand Jury in October , 1988 . Milken was indicted for stock manipulation in March , 1989 . He was eventually convicted , and served a 22-month prison sentence ; the company declared bankruptcy on February 14 , 1990 . After Drexel , Dahl founded Rock Creek Capital and its affiliated entities in 1989 , serving as chairman until 2009 , when he was succeeded by real estate magnate John C. Cushman , III . In 1994 , Dahl co-founded Timbervest , LLC , a timberland investment organization that managed over $500 million in assets prior to its sale in 2004 . He is married to the former Kathleen Mary Rainey and has five children . # Philanthropy # A longtime philanthropist , Dahl created The Dahl Family Foundation in 2003 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and opportunities for children , in particular The Emily Krzyzewski Center ( The Emily K Center ) and has given to Wolfsons Childrens Hospital , Duke University , Florida State University , The Bolles School , Maclay School , The Guardian of Dreams Foundation , United Way and the American Cancer Society . He is also actively involved in environmental conservation and preservation . He is a supporter of Tall Timbers and other land conservation groups , and has donated conservation easements on many of his properties . 
