@@25736514 Diana Goodman ( born 1952 in Christchurch , New Zealand ) is a New Zealand-born journalist who became the BBC 's first female foreign correspondent . Goodman was educated at Lytton High School , Gisborne , and Samuel Marsden Collegiate School for Girls , Wellington , before studying journalism at the Wellington Polytechnic School of Journalism . After graduating , she worked for the Cook Islands Broadcasting and Newspaper Corporation , The Dominion , and the New Zealand Broadcasting Corporation . She moved to Britain in 1975 and started out in commercial radio before joining BBC Radio Manchester as a news producer in 1978 . Goodman became a network radio reporter in 1982 . The following year she was sent to Australia and New Zealand to cover the Prince and Princess of Wales ' first tour abroad . In 1984 , she reported from Beirut on the Lebanese Civil War . The BBC attracted some criticism from listeners who objected to a woman being sent to cover a conflict . In 1986 , Goodman was posted to Bonn as the BBC 's first-ever female foreign correspondent . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Waldheim 's election as president of Austria . During the political upheavals in Eastern Europe in 1989 , she came under fire while reporting on the overthrow of President Nicolae Ceauescu . In January 1990 , the BBC was able to open its first bureau in East Berlin and Goodman was based there as Eastern Europe correspondent from 1990 to 1993 . She reported on the first democratic elections in Eastern Europe , the reunification of Germany , the dissolution of Czechoslovakia and , from Moscow , the resignation of General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev and the end of the Soviet Union . In 1994 Goodman was posted to Russia , serving as Moscow correspondent until 1998 . She covered the political ramifications of the war in Chechnya , Boris Yeltsin 's presidency and the effects of economic change . A dispatch for From Our Own Correspondent on the plight of handicapped children in Russia 's orphanages produced a strong response from listeners . On her return to London , Goodman worked for BBC Newsgathering management and was project editor for two books published by BBC News : ' ' The Day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December 2001 and ' ' The Battle for Iraq ' ' pub . 12 June 2003 . After retiring from the BBC , Goodman moved to New Zealand with her son in 2005. 
