@@27199514 NOTOC On a string instrument , position is the relative location of the hand on the instrument 's neck , indicated by ordinal numbers ( e.g. , 3rd ) . Fingering , independent of position , is indicated by numbers , 1-4 , and string is indicated by Roman numerals , I-IV . Different positions on the same string are reached through shifting . With experience , string players become accustomed to the required shape and position of the left hand . Some positions are located relative to certain touch references , or landmarks on the instrument . For example , fourth position on the cello ( used in the example below ) has the player 's thumb resting in the saddle of the neck root . Similarly , higher positions on the violin make use of the instrument 's shoulder ( treble-side edge of the top 's upper bout ) as a touch reference . Some electric string instruments , without a traditionally shaped body , still incorporate a reference feature imitating that shoulder 's shape . # Trombone position # The trombone produces notes within its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In first position , the length of the bore is at its shortest ; seventh position puts the slide at its furthest extension , at the edge of the inner slide 's stockings . ( These are sections of slightly greater diameter at the ends of the inner slide tubes . ) Positions 3 and 4 may be located by referring the player 's right hand to the bell of the instrument . Each player has a different way of visualizing where the positions of the slide trombone are in relation to each other Positions , especially in the higher register , may need to be shortened or lengthened ( sharpened or flattened ) to play in tune . Lower-numbered ( shorter ) positions are closer together than higher-numbered ones . Positions six and seven are primarily useful in the lower part of the trombone 's range . Some notes may be sounded at more than one position ; for example , D4 may be sounded either in position 1 or 4 . As a result , trombonists often spend time studying a part to determine how to approach a particular @ @ 
