@@27593514 Andreas Schmidt ( born 30 July 1960 in Dsseldorf ) is a German classical bass-baritone in opera and concert . # Career # Andreas Schmidt studied church music with his father Hartmut Schmidt and singing with Ingeborg Reichelt and Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau . His 1984 debut was in the part of Malatesta in Donizetti 's ' ' Don Pasquale ' ' at the Deutsche Oper Berlin . He became a member of the opera house , appearing in Mozart roles such as Guglielmo in ' ' Cos fan tutte ' ' or Count Almaviva in ' ' Le nozze di Figaro ' ' , as Wolfram in Wagner 's ' ' Tannhuser ' ' , Posa in Verdi 's ' ' Don Carlos ' ' , and Marcello in Puccini 's ' ' La Bohme ' ' . He created there the title role of Wolfgang Rihm 's opera ' ' Oedipus ' ' in 1987 and the part of Ryuji in Hans Werner Henze 's ' ' Das verratene Meer ' ' in 1990 . He has appeared as a guest at the Hamburger Staatsoper , the Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Opera , the Grand Thetre Genf , the Royal Opera House Covent Garden , the Opra de Paris , the Gran Teatre del Liceu Barcelona , La Scala Milano , and the Metropolitan Opera . He has performed at the Bayreuth Festival , since 1996 the part of Beckmesser in ' ' Die Meistersinger von Nrnberg ' ' with Daniel Barenboim , later with Christian Thielemann , since 1997 Amfortas in ' ' Parsifal ' ' with Giuseppe Sinopoli , later Christoph Eschenbach , since 2005 Kurwenal in ' ' Tristan und Isolde ' ' . As a concert singer he recorded several Bach cantatas and Bach 's ' ' Mass in B minor ' ' , ' ' Christmas Oratorio ' ' and ' ' St John Passion ' ' with the Gchinger Kantorei and Helmuth Rilling . He recorded the bass part of Bach 's ' ' St Matthew Passion ' ' several times , in 1986 with Colin Davis and the Symphonieorchester des Bayerischen Rundfunks , in 1993 with Peter Schreier as the Evangelist , the Westminster Symphonic Choir and the New York Philharmonic conducted by Kurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducting the Tlzer Knabenchor , the Swedish Radio Choir and the Berlin Philharmonic , in 1998 with the Thomanerchor and the Gewandhausorchester Leipzig , conducted by Georg Christoph Biller . He performed the words of Jesus ( Vox Christi ) in the ' ' St Matthew Passion ' ' in 1988 with John Eliot Gardiner , the Monteverdi Choir and the English Baroque Soloists . With the Gchinger Kantorei he appeared in the premiere of Rihm 's ' ' Deus Passus ' ' on 29 August 2000 . As a recitalist , he recorded for example Lieder of Johannes Brahms together with Juliane Banse , Iris Vermillion and pianist Helmut Deutsch . He received the title Kammersnger in 1997 . He has been teaching since 2005 at the Hochschule fr Musik Carl Maria von Weber Dresden and was appointed professor in 2007 . Starting in 2010 he is a teacher at the Hochschule fr Musik und Theater Mnchen. # References # 
