@@29439514 The Fermilab Holometer in Illinois is under construction and is intended to be the world 's most sensitive laser interferometer when complete , surpassing the sensitivity of the GEO600 and LIGO systems , and theoretically able to detect holographic fluctuations in spacetime . According to the director of the project , the Holometer should be capable of detecting fluctuations in the light of a single attometer , meeting or exceeding the sensitivity required to detect the smallest units in the universe called Planck units . Fermilab states : Everyone is familiar these days with the blurry and pixelated images , or noisy sound transmission , associated with poor internet bandwidth . The Holometer seeks to detect the equivalent blurriness or noise in reality itself , associated with the ultimate frequency limit imposed by nature . Craig Hogan , a particle astrophysicist at Fermilab , states about the experiment , What were looking for is when the lasers lose step with each other . Were trying to detect the smallest unit in the universe . This is really great fun , a sort of old-fashioned physics experiment where you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicist Hartmut Grote of the Max Planck Institute in Germany states that although he is skeptical that the apparatus will successfully detect the holographic fluctuations , if the experiment is successful it would be a very strong impact to one of the most open questions in fundamental physics . It would be the first proof that space-time , the fabric of the universe , is quantized . The hypothesis that holographic noise may be observed in this manner has been criticized on the grounds that the theoretical framework used to derive the noise violates Lorentz-invariance . Lorentz-invariance violation is however very strongly constrained already , an issue that has been very unsatisfactorily addressed in the mathematical treatment . # Experimental description # The Holometer will consist of two power-recycled Michelson interferometers , similar to the LIGO instruments . The interferometers will be able to be operated in two spatial configurations , termed nested and back-to-back . According to Hogan 's hypothesis , in the nested configuration the interferometers ' beamsplitters should appear to wander in step with each other ( that is , the wandering should be ' ' correlated ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wandering of the beamsplitters should be uncorrelated . The presence or absence of the correlated wandering effect in each configuration can be determined by cross-correlating the interferometers ' outputs . 
