@@29657514 Athenais Philostorgos II her surname can be spelt as Philostorgus , she is sometimes known as Athenais of Pontus ( Greek : ' ' ' ' ' , meaning ' ' Athenais the loving one ' ' , flourished 51 BCE ) was a Princess from the Kingdom of Pontus and through marriage was a Roman Client Queen of Cappadocia . Athenais was a Princess of Persian and Greek Macedonian ancestry . She was the child of King Mithridates VI of Pontus from his second marriage to the Anatolian Greek Macedonian noblewoman and Pontian Queen Monime . When Athenais was born , her parents gave her a traditional ancient Greek name . She was born and raised in the Kingdom of Pontus . Athenais married the Cappadocian Prince and later King Ariobarzanes II Philopator , who was of Persian and Greek descent . Ariobarzanes II succeeded his father as King in 63 BC-62 BC , when his father Ariobarzanes I Philoromaios abdicated his throne . When Ariobarzanes II became King , Athenais became Cappadocian Queen and she also inherited the honorific title of ' ' Philostorgos ' ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II , Athenais Philostorgos I. Athenais was related to the previous Kings and monarchs of Cappadocia , as her paternal aunt Laodice of Cappadocia was a Queen ; her paternal cousins : Ariarathes VI , Ariarathes VII , Ariarathes VIII and her paternal half-brother Ariarathes IX served as previous Kings of Cappadocia . Through her Seleucid and paternal lineage , Athenais was related to the ancestors of Ariarathes VI . Ariobarzanes II reigned as King of Cappadocian from 63 BC-62 BC until his assassination in c. 51 BC . There are various surviving honorific inscriptions dedicated to Athenais . During their marriage Athenais bore Ariobarzanes II two sons : Ariobarzanes III Eusebes Philoromaios and Ariarathes X Eusebes Philadelphos . Her sons would serve as among the last Kings of Cappadocia . The name ' Ariobarzanes ' was not just a name that was from her husbands family , it was a name from her family . Athenais had three paternal political ancestors of that name : Ariobarzanes of Phrygia ( flourished 5th century BC ) ; Ariobarzanes II of Cius ( flourished 4th century BC ) and the previous Pontian King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , her first son succeeded his father as King and she became a widow who never married again . Athenais became known as the Queen-Mother of Cappadocia . During the rule of Ariobarzanes III , Roman Governor of Cilicia Marcus Tullius Cicero warned the King that Athenais could be a potential enemy to him . Ciceros warning was based on Athenais jealousy , about two nobles called Methras and Athenaeus . They were ministers and favorites of her first son and they were through Athenais jealousy were driven out from the Cappadocian Royal Court . However Methras and Athenaeus were later recalled by Cicero . Athenais jealousy was a part of her failed plot to depose her first son from his throne and put her second son in his place . Cicero and Ariobarzanes III caught Athenais out and Ariobarzanes III was very saddened about his mothers actions . Ariabarzanes III removed his mother from power and her fate afterwards is unknown . 
