@@29930514 Andr de Gouveia ( Beja , 1497 - 9 June 1548 , Coimbra ) was a Portuguese humanist and pedagogue during the Renaissance . Andr de Gouveia became one of the first Portuguese to study in the Collge Sainte-Barbe , in Paris , which was then directed by his uncle Diogo de Gouveia . After attending six years in ' ' maitrise des Arts ' ' he earned a degree as doctor in theology , and simultaneously , began teaching at the college . Starting in 1530 , due to the many diplomatic missions that kept his uncle away , Andr was entrusted by him with the direction of the Collge . As an adept of the most advanced religious ideas , Andr de Gouveia bent Saint Barbe into the Humanist ideals . There in 1531 he appointed regent Nicolas Cop . After Cop 's contested inaugural address as rector of the university in 1533 , he was appointed rector of the University of Paris for the college of arts ( liberal arts ) , introducing new rules for transparency and fairness among all disciplines , but soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the College of Guienne , in Bordeaux . He had been invited by the municipal authorities , and was given full freedom to modernize the old college . On arrival , Gouveia proclaimed that he would not recognize differences of creed in staff and pupils , many of whom showed sympathy to the new doctrines of the Reform . There , in 1539 , Gouveia welcomed George Buchanan , appointing him professor of Latin . Gouveia 's stay at the College de Guyenne lasted until 1547 , attracting students like tienne de La Botie and Michel de Montaigne , who later in his ' ' Essays ' ' described Gouveia as ... behind comparison the greatest principal in France . The fame of the teaching -mainly grammar , classical literature , history and philosophy - was such that , in 1552 , Italian scholar and physician Julius Caesar Scaliger sent his sons to the college , including Joseph Justus Scaliger . Andr de Gouveia returned to Portugal at the invitation of King John III , accompanied by a group of foreign teachers , to head the new College of the Arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Buchanan , Jernimo Osrio , Nicolas de Grouchy , Guillaume Gurante and lie Vinet , who came to be decisive for the disclosure of contemporary research of Pedro Nunes . However , Gouveia did not remained for long in office as president of the college , as he died in June 1548 . Rivalry between the secular trends of the new Bordeaux teachers , and the more orthodox method of the Parisian school headeds by Diogo de Gouveia led to several teachers , including George Buchanan , to face inquisition : Gouveia kept numerous contacts with European scholars and Portuguese businesses when he was in France . At odds with his uncle Diogo , Andr was suspected of Lutheranism . He left a few written texts , in particular his views are represented regulations of the Collge de Guyenne , published by Elie Vinet in 1583 under the title ' ' Schola Aquitanica ' ' . Andr de Gouveia was brother to humanist and teacher Antnio de Gouveia. 
