@@32151514 The French India Students Congress was a student movement in French India , which fought for independence of the colony from French rule . The foundation of the French India Students Congress was preceded by the formation of the French India National Congress . The French India Student Congress was affiliated with the All India Student Congress . The founding of the French India Students Congress came after the disbanding of the Saraswathi Sangam . The organization was formed at the Ansari Caf , in Pondicherry , on 10 August 10 1946 , with the purpose of mobilizing the youth of the colony for independence . Its founders included Antoine Vallabh Mariadassou , Sebastien , Dorai Mounissamy , Arumugam , J. Savarinathan , T.N. Sethuraman and Ambadi Narayan ( from Mah ) . Antoine Vallabh Mariadassou was the founding president of the organization , serving 1946-1947 . Paul Radjanedassou served as president 1947-1948 and Shatrugh Paramel 1948-1949 . Dorai Mounissamy was the founding general secretary of the organization . The organization used slogans such as ' ' Down with French colonialism ! ' ' , ' ' Inquilab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' and ' ' French , Quit India ! ' ' . As independence of British India drew nearer , the French India Students Congress called for a protest on August 9 , 1947 to call on France to quit India . French authorities issues a ban against the manifestation . The ban provoked spontaneous protests from the French India Students Congress , the French India National Congress , the Communist Party of French India and trade unions . The mass rally of the French India National Congress and French India Students Congress was held on August 10 , 1947 a meeting was held at Nehru Vanam . It was presided by Rajan Das from the Students Congress . The meeting called for immediate merger of French India with the Indian Union . In November 1947 the French India Students Congress began publishing ' ' Jeunesse ' ' . The editorial office was located on rue Candappa , at the residence of Paul Radjanedassou and Antoine Mariadassou . Ahead of the October 1948 municipal elections , the French authorities launched a crack-down on the French India Students Congress . S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' ) were arrested and jailed for shorter periods . The French India Students Congress took part in the mass protests against French colonial rule in 1954 . D. Mounissamy held a protest on April 14 , 1954 , which was attacked by police and goondas. 
