@@32808514 governingbody = Private The South School is a historic school building in the village of Yellow Springs , Ohio , United States . Over its history of more than 150 years , it has served a wide range of purposes , although it is not used now as a school . Upon its completion in 1856 , the South School served one of the school districts of Miami Township . At that time , small schoolhouses covered Greene County ; more than a hundred were still in existence into the late twentieth century . This position it held only for a short time ; just two years after its completion , it was converted for use as Yellow Springs High School ; at that time , only white students were permitted to attend . After fourteen years in the South School , the high school moved to a different property ; from 1872 until 1874 , no school typically met on the property . It was reopened in the latter year to serve as the black school , which purpose it served until 1887 . Since its closure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Architecturally , the South School is a distinctive example of the Greek Revival style of architecture . Constructed on a limestone foundation , it is built of brick and covered with a metal roof . Among its most distinctive elements is the decorative brickwork that appears at certain points on the exterior ; such styling is common on buildings constructed during Yellow Springs ' golden age in the mid-19th century , but is a stark difference from the county 's other historic school buildings . Architectural historians have seen the brickwork as an indication that the school was constructed by local brickmaker and contractor J.W. Hamilton , who established his business in the community in 1848 and was an active part of the community for over thirty years . In 1984 , the South School was listed on the National Register of Historic Places because of its important architecture and because of its place in local history . Key to its place in local history is its use as a segregated school by two races . 
