@@33060514 The Caeroesi ( spelling variants include Caeraesi , Ceroesi , Cerosi ) were a tribe living in Belgic Gaul when Julius Caesar 's Roman forces entered the area in 57 BCE . They are know from his account of the ' ' Gallic War ' ' . They are generally also equated with the Cracates mentioned briefly by Tacitus in his ' ' Histories ' ' . They were one of a group of tribes listed by his local informants as the ' ' Germani ' ' , along with the Eburones , Condrusi , Paemani ( or Caemani ) , and Segni . These tribes are referred to as the ' ' Germani Cisrhenani ' ' , to distinguish them from Germani living on the east of the Rhine , outside of the Gaulish and Roman area . Whether this meant that they actually spoke a Germanic language or not , is still uncertain , but it was claimed by Tacitus that these Germani were the original Germani , and that the term ' ' Germani ' ' as it came to be widely used was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the original ' ' Germani ' ' in his time were the Tungri . The general area of the Belgian ' ' Germani ' ' was between the Scheldt and Rhine rivers , and north of Luxemburg and the Moselle , which is where the Treverii lived . In modern terms this area includes eastern Belgium , the southern parts of the Netherlands , and a part of Germany on the west of the Rhine , but north of Koblenz . The Caeroesi appear to have lived in the south of this range , in the Eifel region , in the area which later because the Roman ' ' pagus ' ' of Carucum , a sub-division of the Treveri . Later this became the Frankish pagus called Caroascus. 180pxthumbBoundary marker of the ' ' Pagus Carucum ' ' . A Roman era boundary marker has been found near Neidenbach bei Kyllburg marked FINIS PAGI CARV CVM ( the boundary or end of the Carucum pagus ) . This was on the Roman road between Trier , the main Roman city of the Treverii , and Cologne . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the east of Neidenbach , the Vinxtbach , a small river flowing eastwards to the Rhine , marked the boundary between the Roman provinces of Germania Superior and Germania Inferior . The name Vinxtbach is in fact thought to derive from the Latin word ' ' finis ' ' , meaning an end or boundary . Today the Vinxtbach is still a boundary between modern German dialects , with Ripuarian to the north , and Moselle Frankish to the south . Also nearby is the modern boundary of modern German ' ' Lnder ' ' of Rheinland-Pfalz and Nordrhein-Westfalen . Their name is believed to mean sheep people , and to be Celtic in origin . 
