@@1104514 The columnar phase is a class of mesophases in which molecules assemble into cylindrical structures to act as mesogens . Originally , these kinds of liquid crystals were called discotic liquid crystals because the columnar structures are composed of flat-shaped discotic molecules stacked one-dimensionally . Since recent findings provide a number of columnar liquid crystals consisting of non-discoid mesogens , it is more common now to classify this state of matter and compounds with these properties as columnar liquid crystals . Takuzo Aida and co-workers recently reported cyclic peptides that self-assemble into polar columnar organizations . These materials can be unidirectionally aligned over large areas by application of an external electric field . # Classes # Columnar liquid crystals are grouped by their structural order and the ways of packing of the columns . Nematic columnar liquid crystals have no long-range order and are less organized than other columnar liquid crystals . Other columnar phases with long-range order are classified by their two-dimensional lattices : hexagonal , tetragonal , rectangular , and oblique phases . The discotic nematic phase includes nematic liquid crystals composed of flat-shaped discotic molecules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not form specific columnar assemblies but only float with their short axes in parallel to the director ( a unit vector which defines the liquid-crystalline alignment and order ) . # Current topics of interest # The first discotic liquid crystal was found in 1977 by the Indian researcher Sivaramakrishna Chandrasekhar . This molecule has one central benzene ring surrounded by six alkyl chains . Since then , a large number of discoid mesogenic compounds have been discovered in which triphenylene , porphyrin , phthalocyanine , coronene , and other aromatic molecules are involved . The typical columnar liquid-crystalline molecules have a pi-electron-rich aromatic core attached by flexible alkyl chains . This structure is attracting particular attention for potential molecular electronics in which aromatic parts transport electrons or holes and alkyl chains act as insulating parts . The advantages of liquid-crystalline conductors are their anisotropy , processibility , and self-healing characteristics for structural defects 
