@@33393514 Westwood is a big village and a civil parish in Wiltshire , England . # Location # The village is located southwest of Bradford on Avon , with Avoncliff railway station , Kennet &amp; Avon canal and river Avon setting the northern boundary for the village . The neighbouring villages are Winsley and Turleigh from north , and Freshford and Sharpstone from west . # History # Westwood 's recorded history begins in 983 AD , when King Ethelred 's charters granted various pieces of land to his servant Aelfnoth , and four years later to his huntsman Leofwine . In Norman times , Westwood was one of the estates assigned for the support of the monks at Winchester Priory . The residents of the manor continued to be tenants of the Priory until it was dissolved by Henry VIII . The medieval population of Westwood , as recorded in Domesday Book of 1086 , consisted of just 13 households , growing to 45 recorded taxpayers in the late 14th century . The earliest part of the present parish church of St Mary dates from the 13th century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perpendicular Gothic nave , chapel and tower were added in the late 15th century . The earliest records of a substantial quarrying industry at Westwood date from 1649 . By the mid-19th century , the quality of Westwood stone had earned a good reputation , and over the next half-century , output increased at a great rate . Westwood stone went to build many houses in Bath , as well as Holy Trinity church in Trowbridge ( 1838 ) . A narrow-gauge railway was constructed to transport the huge blocks of rough cut stone from the quarry to the cutting-yard at Avoncliff railway station . Nowadays , all that remains from the centuries of intensive quarrying is the labyrinth of tunnels , eight feet high and twelve feet wide . They have been put to a number of imaginative uses , especially after they were taken over by the Ministry of Supply in 1939 . For example , the eastern part of the quarry tunnels had since 1928 been used for growing mushrooms , as the relatively stable ambient temperatures and the high humidity of the underground were found perfectly suitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment at an underground factory which had been located in the tunnels to defend against Luftwaffe raids . Additionally , by the end of 1942 the Westwood tunnels had probably housed the greatest and most valuable collection of cultural and artistic artifacts assembled in one location anywhere in the world , including exhibits from British Museum , pictures from the National Portrait Gallery , tapestries from the Victoria and Albert Museum , the Elgin Marbles , and the Wright brothers ' aeroplane . A special air conditioning plant had to be installed to control the humidity underground . 
