@@33488514 On September 26 , 2011 , California Governor Jerry Brown signed California Law AB 1215 into law . Authored by Bob Blumenfield ( D-Woodland Hills ) , the legislation accomplishes three goals : ( 1 ) increases the fees that California car and truck dealers can charge for licensing , ( 2 ) requires dealers to use Electronic Titling ( ELT ) and ( 3 ) governs how automobile dealers disclose previously damaged used cars . The law went into effect on July 1 , 2012 . Proponents of AB 1215 included the California New Car Dealer Association , the Independent Auto Dealers Association of California , Consumers for Auto Reliability &amp; Safety and California Associates of Highway Patrol . California is often a leader in consumer protection legislation and consumer advocates hope the law will lead to a similar federal program . The bill passed the California State Assembly 67-4 and the California State Senate 30-4 before being signed by Governor Brown . Once AB 1215 goes into effect , car and truck dealers in California will be able to charge up to $80 per new or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for vehicle purchase transactions and $45 for lease transactions . Documentation fees cover titling , registration and other dealership documentation requirements . Lawmakers estimate the legislation will save taxpayers as much as $9 million per year by using electronic titling systems . AB 1215 also includes a mandate for dealers to participate in the California DMV 's Business Partner Automation Program(BPA) . The BPA program enables fast and easy title and registration processes , saving the state time and labor costs and dealers/consumers needless time and paper forms at the Department of Motor Vehicles . And because of CA AB 1215 , starting on July 1 , 2012 , California new and used car and truck dealers will have to check a National Motor Vehicle Title Information System ( NMVTIS ) report before selling any used vehicle . NMVTIS vehicle history check information contains the most up-to-date DMV title information from participating states , along with the industrys most complete salvage auction , junkyard and insurance company sourced total loss information . If the NMVTIS report shows a previous salvage or other state title brand or reported event such as Insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Each vehicle with salvage title brands or other problem is required to have a red 4 x 5 sticker with language warning potential buyers that the vehicle has this kind of salvage history . California dealers , along with national and state consumer protection groups , supported the AB 1215 bill . California dealers will now be required to title check by VIN all used vehicles using a sanctioned NMVTIS Consumer Access Provider . The dealer must disclose whether the auto has had previous salvage or damage history . Vehicles with this kind of salvage title history will be required to have the 4 x 5 red window sticker with language . The dealer must also provide a copy of the NMVTIS-based car history report to the buyer . Only official NMVTIS Access Providers are able to be used to comply with California AB 1215 . A complete list of NMVTIS Consumer Access Providers is available on the NMVTIS Web site , . # References # # See also # *Vehicle history report 
