@@36227514 The concept of the Malay world or Malay realm ( Malay : ' ' Dunia Melayu ' ' or ' ' Alam Melayu ' ' , Jawi : or ) has multiple meanings depending on its context . Linguistically , it refers to the Malay-speaking countries and territories of Southeast Asia - Brunei , Indonesia , Malaysia , Singapore , and Southern Thailand . In a geopolitical context , the term has been used interchangeably with the Javanese concept of Nusantara and the colonial term for the Malay Archipelago . It has been more broadly defined as a region , homeland of the Austronesian people that extends from the Easter Islands in the east to Madagascar in the west , . However , these wider definitions of the Malay world remained controversial and criticized for their primary derivation from the anachronistic concept of a Malay race . In a cultural sense , the Malay world refers to the homeland of ethnic Malays that was historically ruled by various Malay sultanates in Maritime Southeast Asia . This area includes the Malay peninsula , the coastal areas of Sumatra and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Origin # Portuguese historian Emanuel Godinho de Erdia 's 16th century account says the early phase of the Malay world began with the consolidation of ' ' Laut Melayu ' ' ( Malay sea ) under Melakan dominance in the 15th century . The area Erdia called the Malayos sea covers the Andaman Sea in the north , the entire Malacca Strait in the centre , a part of Sunda Strait in the south and the western South China Sea in the east . The region was generally described as a Muslim centre of international trade , with Malay language as its ' ' lingua franca ' ' . Erdia 's description indicates that ' ' Laut Melayu ' ' was a **25;60416;TOOLONG concept , a concept of geographical unity characterized by the common religious belief and cultural features . This was strongly attested when the notion of Malayness and the common Malay identity based on Islam began taking shape during the Melakan era . The subsequent expansion of Melakan commercial and religious influence beyond this cultural border had resulted in the early stage of Malayisation process , heavily marked by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customs . This assimilation process continued and intensified even after the demise of Melaka in the early 16th century . The post Melakan era saw the rise of numerous Melakan-modelled Malay sultanates in a larger geographical sphere of the region , ranging from the small sultanates like Asahan , Deli , Langkat and Serdang , to the powerful imperial sultanates like Brunei , Johor and Pattani . The emergence of these sultanates resulted in a broader Malay cultural and commercial influence and the eventual expansion of the Malay world . The strong Malay cultural and linguistic diffusion in the region as observed by the European scholars during colonial era , would later became the basis for the construction of several anthropological , geographical and linguistic terms . Among the examples are the concept of Malay race , the name Malay Archipelago for the region , and several linguistic terminologies such as Malayo-Polynesian languages and Malayic languages . These xenisms have been very influential in shaping various modern views on the extent of the Malay world . # See also # * Maphilindo * Nusantara 
