@@37972514 Picatic is an online ticketing company . Picatics crowd-funding platform for event ticket sales allows promoters to create event pages to generate funding before events are booked . Picatic is known for creating crowdfunding solutions specifically within the events industry . Jayesh Parmar founded Picatic in 2008 . The company has offices in Toronto , Saskatoon , San Francisco , and New York City . # History # Jayesh Parmar is the CEO and co-founder of Picatic . Founded in 2008 , the company started as a traditional online ticketing company . The first website was launched in 2009 . Online ticketing services are a foundation of the company . Picatic allows events and venues to create , promote , and sell tickets for a variety of events . In September 2012 , Picatic launched their event crowdfunding feature . Picatic now offers a crowdfunding platform used to determine demand for an event before booking begins . Like other crowdfunding companies including Kickstarter , Indiegogo , and Tixelated , Picatic gives event planners the ability to raise funding money before officially booking an event . This system creates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artists . Picatic currently serves United States and Canadian markets . The company plans to expand services to United Kingdom and Latin American markets by early 2012. # Products # Picatic offers two primary services . The company provides online ticket sales . Picatic charges vendors a commission on for-profit tickets . The company does not charge for free tickets . Picatics crowdfunding platform provides crowdfunding options for event planners . Individuals or groups create event pages and pre-sell tickets in order to raise funds for the event . Event creators offer other incentives to increase purchases . Ticket buyers receive refunds if the financial threshold is not met . Additionally , Picatic offers tools to supplement event planning . These include an app to monitor inventory or attendance lists from mobile devices , widgets to embed on company or individual webpages , online guest surveys , and others . Picatic also provides back-end management tools which allow planners to manage all aspects of an event from one location . Event planners are able to receive daily or weekly sales reports , manage tickets and refunds , email guests through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been called the Kickstarter of events . # Recognition # Picatic unwittingly provided the punch line for an Internet sensation in 2012 . Lisa Dutton , an anchorwoman for a local news show in Saskatoon , mispronounced the company name during a broadcast . Dutton told viewers that tickets for a sausage-eating contest could be purchased at picadick . This video went viral . Picatic reported a large spike in Internet traffic to the website following this event . In 2012 , Extreme Startups selected Picatic as one of five start-ups to receive funding and support . As part of this cohort , Picatic receives seed money , mentorship and administrative and legal support for one year . Follow Extreme Startups , Picatic was selected to join the General Assembly at the CTA@NYC in order to further expand their brand and business . 
