@@38054514 residence = birthplace = Rustenburg , North West Province , South Africa website = Tsholofelo Thipe ( ne Selemela ) ( born 9 December 1986 ) is a South African sprinter , who specialized in the 400 metres . She set a personal best time of 51.15 seconds by winning the 400 metres event at the 2009 South African Championships in Stellenbosch . She was born in Rustenburg , North West Province . # Career and training # Thipe was one of the first black women to represent South Africa on the track , when she competed in the 400 metres at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing . She ran in the sixth heat against seven other athletes , including Jamaica 's Novlene Williams and Great Britain 's Nicola Sanders , both of whom were heavy favorites in this event . She finished the race in sixth place , seventy-three hundredths ( 0.73 ) of a second ahead of Albania 's Klodiana Shala , with a time of 54.11 seconds . Thipe failed to advance into the semi-finals , as she placed forty-third overall , and finished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thipe also sought to qualify for her second Olympics in London . She finished fifth in the final of the 400 metres at the 2012 African Athletics Championships in Porto Novo , Benin ; however , her time of 52.26 seconds was insufficient to secure her place at the Olympics . On October 16 , 2012 , Thipe was among the ten South African athletes who had failed the drug test for banned substances , including norandrosterone , from the African Championships . She blamed the national team 's doctor for prescribing her a contraceptive pill called ' ' Norlevo ' ' , which contains the banned substance , and slammed Athletics South Africa ( ASA ) for their failure to follow correct procedure by disclosing the results of her doping test to the media before convening a hearing in which she could defend herself . Thipe is also a resident athlete of Royal Bafokeng Athletics Club in Rustenburg . She is trained by her husband , Eugene Thipe , who also coaches sprinter and national record holder Simon Magakwe , a three-time finalist at the African Athletics Championships . 
