@@38614514 A dodecapharmacum is a medicine of twelve ingredients . The best known was the Apostles ' Ointment ( Latin : Apostolorum unguentum ) , or Ointment of Venus ( Latin : ' ' unguentum Veneris ' ' ) which was an ointment attributed to Avicenna ( d.1037 ) made of twelve ingredients . The ingredients were turpentine , wax , gum ammoniac , birthwort roots , olibanum , bdellium , myrrh and galbanum , opoponax , verdigris , litharge , plus olive oil , and vinegar . Avicenna describes the ingredients and proportions of such a recipe in Qanun V.1.11 . Some later writers have questioned whether the title of the recipe Ointment of the Apostles , or Ointment of Venus were used by Avicenna himself , however when an Arabic version of the Canon of Medicine ( ) was first printed in 1593 in Rome , recipe no. 442 ( Arabic ) was entitled ointment of the Apostles ( Arabic : ' ' marham ur rusul ' ' ) . The name Ointment of the Apostles for the 12-ingredient recipe appears in the works of the Dominican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inventarium sive chirugia magna ' ' of Guy de Chauliac ( 1330s ) . Renaissance pharmacy texts such as the ' ' Antidotarium Romanum ' ' ( Rome , 1590 ) also include the recipe as ' ' Unguentem Apostolorum ' ' . The Arabic equivalent of the Latin ' ' Unguentum Apostolorum ' ' is found in later Arabic medical texts such as the translations into Arabic of the Nestorian Christian physician David of Antioch ( d.1596 ) . Naming of the ointment of the Apostles as ointment of Venus occurs in the works of Jehan Yperman ( c.1260-c.1330 ) . However many remedies were called .. of Venus and also widely known in antiquity was an eye-salve called the plaster of Isis distinct from later Ointment of Venus . Mirza Ghulam Ahmad ( Urdu 1899 ) claimed that this ointment was known as the Ointment of Jesus ( Arabic : marham-i-Isa ) and had helped Jesus recover from the wounds of crucifixion , in support of his claim that Jesus did not die upon the Cross and was saved . Mirza Ghulam Ahmad claimed that he was the Promised @ @ @ @ 
