@@38895514 Stas Maliszewski ( born Stanislaw Maliszewski ' ' pol . ' ' Stanisaw Maliszewski ; August 1944 in Poland ) is a Polish American former football linebacker . He played college football for Princeton from 1963 through 1965 , and was an All-American in 1964 and 1965 . He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1966 NFL Draft by the Baltimore Colts . Born in August 1944 in German-occupied Poland , Maliszewski and his family ( his parents , grandparents , and two brothers ) soon became refugees , fleeing ahead of the advancing Soviet army . They wound up in a displaced persons camp in West Germany and in 1951 came to the United States . After processing through Ellis Island , they settled in Davenport , Iowa , where they were sponsored by the First Presbyterian Church . As a high school football player at Assumption High School in Davenport ( where one of his classmates was future Miami Dolphins receiver Karl Noonan ) Maliszewski was heavily recruited by Notre Dame , but in his senior year , Jim Leach , a Davenport resident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Princeton . A 1965 ' ' Sports Illustrated ' ' story described Maliszewski as a sensitive , deeply religious young man who , Princeton coaches say , gets nasty only when he removes his two front teeth before a game , and then he is about the nastiest thing ever to draw a pro scout to a Princeton football game . At Princeton he majored in philosophy , and his senior thesis was called The Existence of God in Hume and Kant . He attended Harvard Business School . He founded Gateway Asset Management , a pension marketing firm based in Chicago . In 1998 , as an independent director of the Yacktman Fund , a mutual fund , he was a leader of a widely reported challenge to the fund 's management . The fund 's shareholders ultimately voted to support the fund 's manager and the dissident directors were removed , but the controversy influenced the Securities and Exchange Commission in its development of new rules adopted in 2001 to protect independent fund directors.In 2012 he received a lifetime achievement award from Fund Director Intelligence for his contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and later chairman ) of the Princeton Football Association . He is married to Julia Armstrong Jitkoff and has four children by a previous marriage . 
