@@40134514 birthplace = New York City , New York , U.S. deathplace = Seattle , Washington , U.S. Toby Saks ( January 8 , 1942 August 1 , 2013 ) was an American cellist , the founder of the Seattle Chamber Music Society and a member of the New York Philharmonic . Born in New York City to an immigrant family , Saks began music lessons at the age of five , first on the piano and then , at age nine , on the cello . She studied at New York 's High School of Performing Arts and later at the Juilliard School with Leonard Rose . She gave prize-winning performances at the International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow and the Casals Competition in Israel . In 1964 , she won a Young Concert Artists 's award . In the late-1960s , she married philosopher and author David Berlinski and had two children , daughter Claire Berlinski In 1971 , she joined the New York Philharmonic , one of the first women to do so . However , over the years , Saks grew to dislike playing in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the University of Washington 's music department , where she replaced the retiring Eva Heinitz . In 1982 Saks averred that she missed performing publicly but at the same time observed that Seattle lacked a major outlet for the expression of what is loosely termed classical music . Saks decided to correct that shortcoming and founded the Seattle Chamber Music Society , which has continued to host summer festivals that feature some forty artists every season . During her thirty-year career as artistic director of the Society , Saks hired some 266 artists , many of whom were housed by Saks and her immediate neighbors . In 2012 Saks chose her replacement . He was James Ehnes , a former festival artist . In 2013 , Toby Saks was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer after persistent abdominal problems . Hoping to attend the Society 's festival , she chose to forgo treatment and , on August 1 , died at the age of 71 . She is survived by her husband of 25 years , Martin Greene , her two children and a grandson . 
