@@1648514 Gawilghur ( also Gawilgarh or Gawilgad ) was a well-fortified mountain stronghold of the Maratha Empire north of the Deccan Plateau , in the vicinity of Melghat Tiger Reserve , Amravati District , Maharashtra . It was successfully assaulted by an Anglo-Indian force commanded by Arthur Wellesley on the 15 December 1803 during the Second Anglo-Maratha War . In popular culture , the campaign to take Gawilghur forms the background of the novel ' ' Sharpe 's Fortress ' ' by Bernard Cornwell , the third in a series of books covering the eponymous hero 's time in the British army in India during the Napoleonic era. # History # The fort takes its name from the Gawli ( cow herds ) who inhabited the Berar ( modern day Amravati ) for centuries . Earlier the fort was likely just made of mud as were several such areas in the region . The exact date of construction is not known but the Persian historian , Firishta , records that Ahmed Shah Wali , the ninth king of the Muzaffarid dynasty built Gawilgarh when he was encamped at Ellichpur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortification was carried out . In 1803 during the 2nd Maratha War the fort was besieged by Arthur Wellesley ( later Duke of Wellington ) . After two failed attempts at the main gate by British and Sepoy companies , and many casualties , Captain Campbell led the 94th Scottish Brigade ( light company ) up the ravine dividing the inner and outer forts and into the inner fort by escalade . The Scots then forced the northern gatehouse and opened the many gates , allowing the remaining British forces entry . The British suffered few casualties in the final assault ( approx. 150 ) . The fortress was returned to the Marathas after making peace with the British but they abandoned it . # Major features # The fort has several inscriptions in Persian recording the date of building of each of its seven gates . It has two water tanks ( ' ' Devtalav ' ' and ' ' Khantalav ' ' ) , which would have been the main water source in case the fort was besieged . Within the fort the ruins of a mosque are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inner fort and is built in the Pathan style of architecture . The mosque has a square canopy with intricate stone lattice work and a seven arched faade . The mosque originally had two minarets , only one of which is intact today . Gafur Ahmed , a jaglia ( tenant ) of the Narnala fort , tried to determine whether the chambers built into the fort of Narnala had any use by driving 20 sheep into them . One of the sheep turned up at Gawilgarh which is more than 20 miles away . So , probably there is an underground tunnel connecting the two forts . There are several unrepaired breaches made by British guns , which remain to this day . The gun that killed five attackers with a single shot still stands , although now with graffiti running the length of the barrel . 
