@@1802514 John Thurnam ( 28 December 1810 &amp;ndash ; 24 September 1873 ) was an English psychiatrist , archaeologist , and ethnologist . He was Medical Superintendent of The Retreat , the Quaker psychiatric hospital near York . In 1848 he reported two maternal first cousins with an unusual condition affecting the skin , hair and teeth ( an ectodermal dysplasia ) ; he had performed an examination post mortem on one of the two men , including relevant histopathology. # Life # Thurnam was born at Lingcroft , near Copmanthorpe , York to the Quaker William Thurnam and his wife Sarah Clark . After a private education he became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1834 , a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians in 1843 , and a fellow in 1859 . He graduated M.D. at the University of Aberdeen in 1846 . Having served as resident medical officer in the Westminster Hospital from 1834 till 1838 , Thurnam was appointed medical superintendent of the Friends ' retreat in York . That post he held until 1849 . The Wiltshire county asylum at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thurnam to be medical superintendent . It was opened in 1851 , and he remained in active charge until his death . Thurnam 's leisure was devoted to statistical facts on mental illness and investigations of anthropological and antiquarian interest . He was twice elected president of the Medico-Psychological Association . Thurnam died at Devizes . On 18 June 1851 he had married Frances Elizabeth , daughter of Matthew Wyatt , a metropolitan police magistrate , and sister of Sir Matthew Digby Wyatt . By her he left three sons . # Works # While at the Westminster Hospital he had gained some reputation from his observations on aneurysm of the heart . In 1843 he published Observations and Essays on the Statistics of Insanity , and on Establishments for the Insane . This work contained a reprint of the Statistics of the York Retreat , first issued in 1841 , together with a historical and descriptive sketch . After his move to Wiltshire he gave special consideration to craniology . Thurnam with Dr. Joseph Barnard Davis published a work in two volumes under the title of ' ' Crania Britannica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Davis were both believers in polygenism , in the form that different races had been created separately . Davis was a collector of craniums , and had over 1700 specimens . Because of the racial differences of the craniums , Davis and Thurnam believed that proofs of polygenism were to be found in studying the skull types of different races . From different sizes and types of skull they deduced separate origins . Two shorter papers were Synostoses of the Cranial Bones regarded as a Race Character ( Nat . Hist . Rev. 1865 ) , and Weight of the Human Brain ( Journ. of Ment . Science , 1868 ) . Thurnam recognised the importance of the obliteration of the sutures of the skull , which he had observed in the dolichocephalous crania of the Stone Age , but not in the brachycephalous crania of the bronze period . His conclusion was that this is a strictly race character 
