@@1924514 Vice Vukov ( 3 August 1936 24 September 2008 ) was a Croatian singer and politician . # Biography # Vukov was born in ibenik . During the 1960s , he was one of the most popular singers in Yugoslavia , appearing at the Eurovision Song Contest 1963 with the song Brodovi and at the Eurovision Song Contest 1965 with the song enja . In the aftermath of the Croatian Spring movement , he was branded a Croatian nationalist by Yugoslav authorities and had his apartment searched by the police during the 1972 wave of arrests of Croatian Spring leaders . Vukov was on an Australian tour at that time . His wife warned him not to return because he could be arrested too , so instead he went to live in France , returning to Yugoslavia in 1976 . By that time , the authorities had lost interest in his case , but his singing career was effectively over ; he was blacklisted , barred from performing publicly and all his records were pulled out of stores . In 1989 an album of his new songs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Croatian music stores , signalling the political change . Soon after , Vukov made a public comeback with a series of 14 sold-out concerts at Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall . Vice Vukov performed some of the greatest patriotic songs , including Zvona moga grada and Tvoja zemlja . After the introduction of democracy to Croatia , Vice Vukov became a prominent supporter of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia . He ran several times for the seat in Croatian Parliament , finally succeeding in 2003 . In 2001 he was suggested as ambassador to Switzerland . On 17 November 2005 , while descending the stairs in the Parliament building , Vukov tripped and fell , sustaining a serious head injury . He was hospitalized and underwent surgery , but fell into a coma shortly afterwards . In March 2006 , according to his doctors , he was in a persistent vegetative state , with no chance for recovery . However , in November 2007 , Vukov was reported as being conscious at times , aware of his surroundings , and his condition was described as stable . He died in Zagreb @ @ @ @ @ @ 
