@@2059514 archipelago = Ren-Levasseur Island is a large island in the centre of Lake Manicouagan in Quebec , Canada . Its highest peak is Mount Babel , at 952 m ( 3,123 feet ) . With a total area of 2,020 km ( and a diameter of 72 km ) , the island is larger in area than the annular lake in which it is situated . Ren-Levasseur Island is the world 's second largest lake island ( the largest is Manitoulin Island in Lake Huron ) . The geological structure was formed by the impact of a meteorite 214 million years ago . The meteorite is believed to have been about 5 km in diameter , and would have hit the earth at a speed of 17 km/s , the fourth most powerful known impact the earth has seen . The impact of the meteorite formed a crater roughly 100 km in diameter , the centre of which forms the island known today . It became an artificial island when the Manicouagan reservoir was flooded in 1970 , merging two crescent-shaped lakes : Mouchalagane Lake on the western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the largest artificial island in the world . The island was named after Ren Levasseur , the chief engineer responsible for the construction of Hydro-Qubec 's Daniel-Johnson Dam on the Manicouagan River , which created the Manicouagan Reservoir . The structure is the world 's largest multiple-arch dam . Levasseur died at the age of 35 , only days before the dam 's inauguration . There is an Innu anecdote concerning Ren Levasseur 's and Daniel Johnson , Sr. The Manicouagan Reservoir , and Ren-Levasseur Island are sometimes called the eye of Quebec . The Island is currently the subject of an ongoing legal battle , as the Innu First Nation of Betsiamites is taking legal action to protect its indigenous land from logging . The Quebec Court of Appeal recently made a ruling allowing Kruger Inc. to resume its logging activities ( April 28 , 2006 ) . The Island is also the object of an environmental/ecological campaign lobbying the government of Qubec to create a protected area spanning the entire Island . The group , SOS Levasseur arose in 2003 partly from the interest that mainstream environmental groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Ren-Levasseur Island be protected in whole . The Island has been proposed as a Canadian National Park , an ecological reserve , a biodiversity reserve and an exceptional geological site . There seems to be an exceptional concentration of old-growth boreal forest stands on the island . SOS Levasseur has been conducting research expeditions to the Island since January 2005 , whose aim is to identify old-growth forest stands and to obtain their protection under the Quebec Forest Law as Exceptional Forest Ecosystems ( EFE ) . The Ministry of Natural Resources and Fauna ( MRNFQ ) , along with Kruger Inc. have already Identified 7 EFEs spanning approximately 25 km . SOS Levasseur has submitted an additional 7 surveyed in the summer of 2005 , and is expected to submit many more from the 2006 and 2007 expeditions . The MRNFQ has yet to recognize the 7 sites proposed by SOS Levasseur . <gallery> Image : le **31;229168;TOOLONG Island in the background Image : le Ren-Levasseur ( coupes ) . JPGClearcutting on the island Image:STS009 Manicouagan.jpgAs seen from space shuttle ( north is to the lower right ) </gallery> 
