@@2548514 The PHS Philadelphia Flower Show is an annual event produced by The Pennsylvania Horticultural Society and held in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in early March . It is the largest indoor flower show in the world attracting more than 250,000 people annually . The show features large scale gardens , which range from elaborate landscaped displays to individual and club entries of a prize horticultural specimen . Each year there is an official theme which serves as the inspiration for most exhibits . The exhibits are submitted for judging in many categories , and are highly competitive . The amateur division of the show known as the Competitive Classes often have an assigned theme , related to the overall show theme . The 2007 Show , Legends of Ireland , featured Pressed Plant Material ( i.e. dried flower pictures ) that .. incorporated a Celtic Knot . . The first weekend 's Medium Niche theme was ' ' Wish You Were Here ' ' Exhibitors will be sent Irish postcards for inspiration . A copy of the postcard will be mounted next to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the niche at home , where they practice assembling and lighting their entry in the months preceding the show . In a ' ' Challenge ' ' class , entrants bring only pruning shears , and must use show-provided materials to interpret a theme within a limited amount of time . Three typical ' ' Horticulture ' ' classes are 142 : ' ' Clivia , flowering . Pot 8 or under ' ' , 143 : ' ' Clivia , flowering . Pot 8 -10 ' ' , and 144 : ' ' Clivia , foliage ' ' . ( There was also a Clivia entered in 2007 under ' ' Exceptional plants 1020 years old , to be judged against perfection for their species/cultivar . ' ' ) A popular part of the show floor is the Garden marketplace where visitors can buy plants and seeds , cut flowers , craft items , and other flower , landscaping and horticulture-related items . The Show boasts fabulous floral and garden design , live entertainment , culinary events and extraordinary gardening how-to workshops and lectures by experts . # History @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The nation 's first flower show was held in Philadelphia in 1829 , and showcased many exotic and native plants . The flower show moved to the now-demolished Philadelphia Civic Center in 1966 , where it remained each year until 1996 , when it moved to its present location at the Pennsylvania Convention Center . Today , PHS contributes to the local economy and the green life of Philadelphia and the region . Proceeds from the Flower Show support thousands of revitalization projects in communities . 
