@@2634514 Westala and Villtin are the eponymous heroes of ' ' The Tale of Westala and Villtin ' ' , a tongue-in-cheek sword and sorcery story first serialised on the Usenet newsgroup alt.fan.pratchett . Based on the now stereotypical pairing of a big , strong warrior and a small , sly thief first established by Fritz Leiber 's classic stories of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser , Westala and Villtin are mercenaries of dubious morality but a strong code of honour . The ' ' Tale ' ' , as it is sometimes known , was written by rjan Westin and Marco Villalta , who appear as the storytellers in a framing story set in a generic fantasy inn , and started as a joke . The two authors alternated writing episodes , without talking to each other about the story , so only the person currently writing knew what was going to happen next . Seeing the need to figure out an ending , they did meet up in person for the first time almost two years after the story had begun to talk it over . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words and ran for two years and five months . After a somewhat shaky start it quickly became an amusing story written in a style inspired by the early ' ' Discworld ' ' books by Terry Pratchett . There are plenty of references , both to people and events of alt.fan.pratchett , films like ' ' Star Wars ' ' , ' ' The Terminator ' ' , and ' ' Aliens ' ' , TV shows like ' ' Star Trek ' ' and ' ' The Muppet Show ' ' , books by authors like Pratchett and J. R. R. Tolkien , as well as computer games , rock songs , classical poetry and Japanese fetishes . Like the early Discworld books , it also features many , and occasionally very long , footnotes . Towards the end it was given the title ' ' Ill in Anorankhmar ' ' , a reference to both Leiber 's title ' ' Ill Met in Lankhmar ' ' , and the a.f.p . Anorankh . This was the title used in the printed edition ( ISBN 91-631-6186-9 ) produced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and made available to order from the official website ( see below ) . A short prequel , ' ' A Midwinter Tale ' ' , has been written since , as has fanfiction by other members of alt.fan.pratchett . A sequel , with more preparation , has begun , under the title ' ' Return of the Striking Knights ' ' . The original Tale has been collated , edited and put on the web by Elin Rosn and can be found - with extensive - at . 
