@@2645514 Timoga Springs is a group of springs located at Timoga-Buru-un , in Iligan City , Philippines . It is well known for icy-cool , crystal-clear springs that flow freely to swimming pools of different sizes . There are approximately five spring resorts along the highway , which is easily accessible by land to all locals and tourists . The source of water of Timoga Springs comes from Lake Lanao in the only Islamic city in the Philippines--Marawi City , Lanao del Surwhich is 37 kilometers away . Lake Lanao waters come from a volcanic source , the lake being the crater of an extinct volcano . These waters are filtered subterraneally in the Timoga , Buru-un area of Iligan , making it one of the richest source of fresh , high pH , alkaline mineral water . Lake Lanao is now categorized as the largest fresh water lake in the Philippines , since recent findings show that Laguna Lake has salt water intrusion . An ongoing project using its pristine waters for bulk water exportation and mineral water distribution is now being undertaken by a member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families . The project is called Lanao Hydro Blessings and is intended to make Iligan and Marawi the hydro dollar capital of the Philippines . Its main markets are the Middle East , India and China , where water is scarce . The intention is to create a Cooperative and a Foundation where the Tri-people of Iligan can participate . Out of the Lanao Hydro Blessings project the Hajj Fund will be develop-where the City of Iligan can send our Muslim brothers for a pilgrimage to Mecca . The Hajj Fund is a percentage given to the Islamic City of Marawi for the sale of the waters of Timoga in its projected bulk water export activities . Lanao Hydro Blessings also intends to start the Water for Oil Exchange between the Middle East and Iligan-where black gold ( oil ) is exchange for blue gold ( fresh waters ) . To protect the integrity of the waters of Timoga Springs and Lake Lanao , the Save Lake Lanao Movement ( SALLAM ) is now in partnership with the Lanao Hydro Blessings in order to encourage Philippine legislators to create the Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blessings through the Rotary Club of Iligan wrote the DENR to classify the waters of Lake Lanao as class A -thereby opening great economic possibilities for these waters . 
