@@2724514 James Ryan ( April 15 , 1842 &amp;ndash ; September 19 , 1917 ) businessman , oldest of seven sons and two daughters of Mary Ellen Fleming and Michael Ryan was born in Bonavista , Newfoundland , Canada . Ryan married Katherine McCarthy of Carbonear , at Roxbury , Massachusetts on March 2 , 1897 . Ryan one of the wealthiest people in Newfoundland and founder of a business that eventually became a Newfoundland historic property called Ryan Premises . On October 20 , 1857 when Ryan was just 15 years old , he and his father started a fishery supply business and public house at Bailey 's Cove , a section of Bonavista . This became a successful enterprise and in 1869 Ryan had acquired enough capital to purchase the business premises formerly owned by William Keen . Incorporated in 1870 as James Ryan and Company , the enterprise had expanded beyond Bonavista to other communities along the coast . Trading operations were soon established at Elliston , Catalina , Bay de Verde , Open Hall and Plate Cove . With his brother Daniel they established a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Trinity in 1906 . The Ryan empire was expanding rapidly and in the nid-1890 's they acquired the fishing premises of J. and W. Stewart at Greenspond , which became an integral part of the Ryan mercantile empire . They also operated their own summer fishing stations in Labrador , at such places as Hawk 's Harbour and Batteaux . Ryan 's businesses were one of the last of Newfoundland firms to use shop assistants who were trained in England , thereby assuring that his employees would be well-versed in the products they were selling . Another important aspect of his business successes was that he dealt directly with the English suppliers and not through the St. John 's middlemen . In 1905 Ryan located his main residence to St. John 's and built a home , which took 2 years ( 19091911 ) , on Rennie 's Mill Road , one of the wealthiest parts of the city . It was an imposing structure that was built to his specifications and known simply as The House , where it still stands today . Appointed to the Legislative Council in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of that chamber before his death at St. John 's on September 19 , 1917 . James and his brother Daniel were two of the wealthiest men in Newfoundland at the turn of the century . After James death his final bequests included funding for Mount Cashel Orphanage , Belvedere Orphanage , the Church of England Orphanage , the Methodist Orphanage and a trust fund to form a permanent relief fund for the poor of Bonavista . Ryan 's Bonavista operations and his various subsidiary companies carried on business until his son Herbert died in 1978 . The premises remained dormant for a time before being acquired by Parks Canada in 1991. 
