@@2795514 birthplace = Bruno Schleinstein ( 2 June 1932 11 August 2010 ) , often credited as Bruno S. , was a German film actor , artist , and musician . # Life # Schleinstein was often beaten as a child , and spent much of his youth in mental institutions . He was a largely self-taught musician , who over the years developed considerable skill on the piano , accordion , glockenspiel and handbells . He would play in back gardens performing 18th and 19th century style ballads at the weekends , while sustaining himself financially working as a forklift driver at a car plant . Schleinstein said he transmits ( ) his songs , rather than singing them . Schleinstein was spotted by director Werner Herzog in the documentary ' ' Bruno der Schwarze Es blies ein Jger wohl in sein Horn ' ' ( 1970 ) . Herzog promptly cast Schleinstein ( under the name Bruno S. ) as his lead actor in ' ' The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser ' ' ( 1974 ) , though he had no acting experience , and the historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also starred in ' ' Stroszek ' ' ( 1977 ) , which Herzog wrote especially for him . ' ' Stroszek ' ' has a number of biographical details from Schleinstein 's life , including the use of his own flat as the home of ' ' Bruno Stroszek ' ' . He also played his own instruments . Herzog has claimed that Schleinstein was deeply suspicious of the director , and nervous of performing in front of the cameras so had to be listened to for several hours on set in order to build his self-esteem . Schleinstein enjoyed his brief period of fame in Berlin following the release of these films , but said later that Everybody threw him away . Instead , he took up painting and music . Some of his artwork was shown at the 2004 Outsider Art Fair in New York City . He appeared in a film again , being cast in Jan Ralske 's ' ' Vergangen , vergessen , vorber ' ' ( ' ' Long-lost and Lay Me Down ' ' , 1993 ) . Ralske also made a short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seeing Things ' ' . He was the subject of a 2003 documentary ' ' Bruno S. Estrangement is death ' ' , directed by Miron Zownir . Schleinstein also released a CD of his music and songs . He was member of the NO ! Art movement . Schleinstein died on 11 August 2010 after suffering heart problems . Shortly after his death , Werner Herzog remarked in all my films , and with all the great actors with whom I have worked , he was the best . There is no one who comes close to him . I mean in his humanity , and the depth of his performance , there is no one like him . In March 2014 Parte released an album of Bruno S ' music . The recordings were made shortly before his death in Berlin . 
