@@2979514 Casey Spooner ( born February 2 , 1970 ) is an American artist and musician . He was born in Athens , Georgia and resides in Williamsburg , Brooklyn . Spooner is openly gay . While attending the Art Institute of Chicago he met Warren Fischer . The two went on to cofound Fischerspooner in New York in 1998 . Spooner has submitted works for Deitch Projects and an album by R.E.M . A promotion for Fischerspooner 's second album included an art Salon/Art Exhibition of all the images used in making of the album , this has since been linked to Warhol . Spooner has contributed and worked on shows with Doorika , a performance arts collective based in Chicago and New York City . Casey joined experimental New York performance ensemble The Wooster Group in 2007 , taking on the role of Ophelia 's brother Laertes in their production of ' ' Hamlet ' ' ( which featured two Fischerspooner songs that were composed for the show ) . During this time , he also began work on a third Fischerspooner album ( with Warren Fischer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ band 's own label FS Studios on May 4 , 2009 , produced by Jeff Saltzman ( The Killers , The Black Keys , The Sounds ) . An American and European Tour , known as Between Worlds , continued all through 2009 . Like in other Fischerspooner 's performances , Spooner was the main figure of the show . In January 2010 , Spooner distributed online his first solo work , the song Faye Dunaway , as a preview of a 2010 solo album entitled Adult Contemporary . The album , according to words by Spooner on Twitter , was recorded directly after finishing ' ' Entertainment ' ' , and was scheduled for release in 2010 . San Francisco , Ca session drummer , Cary LaScala , played drums on most of the album Adult Contemporary . He served as the opening act for Scissor Sisters on their North American tour . This was possible thanks to the funding provided by his fans through Kickstarter , the crowdfunding online platform . Currently , he is at home in NY after releasing his solo album , ' ' Adult Contemporary @ @ @ @ @ @ 
