@@3694514 Carlyle Works Limited was a manufacturer of bodywork for minibuses and later midibuses , located in Egbaston , Birmingham , United Kingdom . Carlyle Works was the central engineering works for Midland Red , once one of the largest bus operators in the United Kingdom . The company was famous for building its own buses and coaches , under the BMMO name . These buses were typically very innovative and were the first to introduce many advanced features . When the development and production of its own vehicles became prohibitive in the late 1960s the central works continued to provide heavy engineering services for the company . In 1968 Midland Red became part of the National Bus Company , and Carlyle Works provided engineering services for other National Bus Company operators . These services included major vehicle modifications and adaptations . In the mid-1980s minibuses became very popular for operators , allowing them to provide higher frequency service on routes that could serve areas larger vehicles could not access . Carlyle developed a range of bodywork for minibuses , notably Ford Transit conversions . The National Bus Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was divided into five operating companies plus the Carlyle Works . On 5 March 1987 Carlyle Works Limited became the twenty second company to be privatised . It was purchased by Frontsource Limited , a private company set up by Robert Beattie to manage the central works facilities of eight former NBC companies . Carlyle set about building upon its minibus expertise , and developed bodywork for the Freight Rover chassis . These sold well , especially to former NBC operators . Designs for Mercedes Benz 700 and 800 series and Iveco vehicles followed . In 1989 the body designs for the Duple Dartline were acquired from Trinity Holdings , who were closing the Duple business . This body was designed for the Dennis Dart and was adapted to 8.5m , 9.0m and 9.8m lengths . Carlyle completed 140 of an order for the 8.5m vehicles from London Buses Ltd . Warrington Borough Transport bought most ( 13 ) of the 9.0m versions . The 9.8m version was bought by China Motor Bus ( later New World First Bus ) and Luton &amp; District . Small numbers of each were bought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find , as the minibus vogue had ended and competing bodywork for the Dennis Dart was proving more popular . In 1992 Carlyle closed . The rights to the Dartline were sold to bodybuilder Marshall Bus . 
