@@4300514 Crosland Moor is a district of the town of Huddersfield , West Yorkshire , England . It begins 1 mile ( 1.5 km ) to the south west of Huddersfield town centre . The electoral ward of Crosland Moor and Netherton , in the Colne Valley constituency . The area of Crosland Moor includes Beaumont Park , Crosland Hill and Walpole and has a population of 9,085 according to the 2001 census . The name may have derived from the local landowners the Crosland family who owned much of the area in 15th and 16th centuries . Crosland Moor begins at the junction of the Manchester Road A62 and Blackmoorfoot Road the main thoroughfare . The area rises up the hillside to overlook the areas of Milnsbridge and Golcar in the Colne Valley . The former St. Luke 's Hospital is situated along Blackmoorfoot Road . It was originally a workhouse for the poor and needy of the area in the 19th century . This was the headquarters for the Calderdale &amp; Huddersfield NHS Trust and also provides other services such as physiotherapy . The hospital closed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disrepair . The Walpole and Balmoral Avenue housing estates are also a part of Crosland Moor . Moor End Academy ( formally Moor End Technology College ) is Crosland Moor 's secondary school based on Dryclough Road near Beaumont Park . Crosland Moor Junior and Infants schools are also on Dryclough Road . At the end of Dryclough Road , Beaumont Park , Huddersfield 's first park , begins . Opened in 1883 , the park mainly consists of woodland and is on a hillside that looks over the Holme Valley and the Lockwood railway viaduct . It is currently being restored to its former glory by the Friends of Beaumont Park . Housing around the park is some of the most expensive in Huddersfield . Along Blackmoorfoot Road beyond the junction with Dryclough Road was the spot where in April 1812 mill owner William Horsfall was shot and killed by the Luddites . They objected to the introduction of machinery Horsfall 's mill in Marsden . A side street where the incident occurred was named after Horsfall ( William Horsfall Street ) . Just off Blackmoorfoot Road beyond the Crosland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established by the David Brown Engineering Works based in Lockwood . Even further up the road is Huddersfield 's Observatory which is situated high over Huddersfield for good views of the sky at night . Before the airfield is the Wellfield quarry where Crosland Hill Sandstone comes from . According to the Building Research Establishment it is a durable stone not affected by acid rain or air pollution . 
