@@4664514 area = thickness = Kahiltna Glacier is the longest glacier of the Alaska Range in the U.S. state of Alaska . It starts on the southwest slope of Mount McKinley near Kahiltna Pass ( elevation 10,320ft m ) . Its main channel runs almost due south between Mount Foraker to the west and Mount Hunter to the east . The name was first reported as Car-ilt-nu Glacier by Alaska Range explorer Lt. J.S. Herron in 1902 . An alternate name is Kagheltnu Li'a . Kahiltna Glacier is the longest glacier in the Alaska Range at 44 mi in length . # Forks # The glacier has a few notable forks . The Northeast Fork lies just under , and to the south of , the large plateau which houses the 14,000ft m camp on the standard West Buttress route of Mount McKinley . It also provides access to the popular , but more technical , West Rib and Cassin Ridge routes . The East Fork is rarely visited , but provides access to the west side of the South Buttress of McKinley . The mouth of the Southeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp for McKinley at approximately the 7,000 foot elevation . This location is officially just outside the southern boundary of the wilderness portion of Denali National Park and Preserve . However , in actuality , the airstrip is generally located on the boundary or just north of the line , but the park service tends to overlook this fact . It also serves as the base camp for climbers attempting routes on the west or north sides of the formidable Mount Hunter , which rises just south of the Southeast Fork , and on the east or southeast sides of Mount Foraker , which lies just across the main part of the glacier . Many other unnamed forks split off to the east from the main stream of the glacier in the region south of Mount Hunter , providing access to a complex of small but steep rock peaks , popular with climbers , known as ' ' Little Switzerland ' ' . The snout of the glacier lies further to the south , at elevation approximately 1,000ft m , where the glacier gives rise to the Kahiltna River . 
