@@5121514 Eugenio Mendoza Goiticoa ( Caracas , November 13 , 1906 , October 17 , 1979 ) was a Venezuelan business tycoon who made important contributions in the modernization of the country during the 20th Century . # Early life # He was the son of Eugenio Mendoza Cobena ( the grandson of Venezuela 's first president , Cristbal Mendoza ) and Luisa Goiticoa ( the great-granddaughter of Simn Bolvar 's sister , Juana Bolvar ) . Despite his family 's historical position he grew up in modest circumstances due to the monetary sacrifices made by his family during the war for Venezuelan independence and later the Venezuelan civil war . Along with his brothers , Pedro and Eduardo Mendoza Goiticoa , he was a descendant of Simn Bolvar 's sister , Juana Bolvar ( Simn Bolvar had no children ) . Eugenio married Luisa Rodriguez Planas in 1938 , and had four children with her : Eugenio Andres , Gertrudis , Luisa Elena and Eugenio Antonio . One son , Eugenio Andres , drowned as a youngster . # Business career # Eugenio Mendoza was the fourth son @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sisters and was the only one who did not pursue a university education , choosing instead to go into business by starting his first company at the age of eighteen . In partnership with Moises Miranda he founded Moiss Miranda &amp; Ca a firm to sale construction materials . By January 1932 , he purchased Mirandas shares becoming the sole owner of the company , today known as Materiales Mendoza.During the following years , he founded Maquinarias Mendoza a heavy equipment company . By 1943 , he had created the Venezolana de Cementos , the largest supplier of cement in the country , with subsections in Barquisimeto , Maracaibo , Pertigalete , Macuro and Catia La Mar . Also , in the following years he conformed Protinal , dedicated to the production of animal feed , Venezolana de Pinturas and Venezolana de Pulpa y Papel . His business organization , El Grupo Mendoza became the largest industrial conglomerate in the 1970s encompassing everything from cement , construction , manufacturing , heavy machinery , paint , paper mills , animal feed , banking , and insurance to ownership of General Motors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philanthropic community of Venezuela for two decades primarily focusing on the founding of the largest children 's hospital in Latin America and numerous schools . In 1970 , he founded the Universidad Metropolitana , a private university located in Caracas , which became the most important passion of his later years . It was the first Venezuelan university to offer careers in business management and finance . It remains one of the most prestigious private universities in Venezuela . Today , their three children and grandchildren continue the business and philanthropic work of El Grupo Mendoza and Fundacin Mendoza . # Minister duties # At the age of 34 , Eugenio Mendoza was elected Minister of Industry Promotion during Isaas Medina Angaritas presidency in Venezuela . 
